Architecture Overview
The application will be a local-first Angular PWA optimized for offline use and data safety. It consists of a front-end Angular app (installable on the iPhone home screen) with no complex server dependencies. The Angular PWA will cache all static assets via a service worker, so it can load and run fully offline[1]. The core data (delivery routes and statuses) is stored in IndexedDB on the device for durability. All user interactions (importing routes, marking deliveries) happen against this local database, ensuring that even with no connectivity, the app is fully functional. Each delivery action is written to IndexedDB immediately in a transactionally safe way so that closing the app or a crash won’t lose data.
On top of the offline core, we plan an optional lightweight backend sync (which can be omitted in v1 and added later). This would be a simple REST API on your server that the app can periodically upload new delivery records to as a backup. The backend is not a source of truth for daily operation – it’s only a secondary backup and for emergency data recovery. The security model is kept simple: all users are trusted and share access, so we avoid complex logins. If we enable the server, we’ll secure it with HTTPS and a static API token for requests.
High-level component breakdown:
• Angular PWA Frontend: Handles UI, offline logic, and local storage. Built with latest Angular (v15+), TypeScript, and configured as a PWA via Angular’s service worker (ng add @angular/pwa). This provides the manifest, offline caching, and home-screen install capability on iOS. When installed on the iPhone (via Safari’s “Add to Home Screen”), it runs in standalone mode with no browser UI.
• Local Database (IndexedDB via Dexie): All route and delivery data is stored here. Dexie.js is used to simplify IndexedDB usage – it provides a simple promise-based API on top of the browser’s offline database and is designed for offline-first apps[2]. This ensures instant, persistent writes for each action.
• CSV Import/Export Module: Logic to import routes from a CSV file and export updated delivery data back to CSV. This bridges the app with the existing Excel workflow.
• UI Components: Three main UI screens – a Home/Dashboard for importing and selecting routes, a Route Planner (stop list) for optional reordering, and a Delivery Run screen (single-stop view with Deliver/Skip actions). The UI is deliberately simple, high-contrast, and touch-friendly, following mobile UI best practices (e.g. large text and buttons, minimal clutter).
• (Optional) Sync Service: Runs in the background (when online) to send new delivery statuses to the backend API. It queues unsynced changes and flushes them when connectivity is detected.
Overall, the architecture prioritizes simplicity and reliability. By using a local-first approach, the app can function with poor or no connectivity. The service worker and IndexedDB combo means the app loads and runs offline, and data is safely stored on the device. The server, if used, is only a backup: loss of server connectivity does not affect the app’s usage. This isolates any network issues and makes sure your aunt can always record her deliveries on the spot. All data is ultimately exportable as CSV for easy use in Excel, maintaining her existing workflow.
Data Model
We will use TypeScript interfaces to define the data structures. Below is a refined data model incorporating additional fields for timestamps and route metadata:
• DeliveryStatus – a union type for delivery state:
type DeliveryStatus = "" | "delivered" | "skipped";
(An empty string "" or maybe a literal "pending" can represent “not yet delivered/attempted”.)
• Delivery – represents a single delivery stop (one row from the spreadsheet). Fields include:
• id: string – Unique ID for the delivery. This can be a UUID or other unique string. (Using a GUID is recommended to avoid collisions; e.g. use a UUID library to generate on import[3]. Alternatively, Dexie can generate auto-increment keys, but a UUID that encodes route info can be useful for syncing.)
• routeDate: string – The date of the delivery route (e.g. "2025-11-24"). This groups deliveries by day. If routes might be named instead of dated, we could use a routeId string, but assuming the CSV provides a date per row.
• name: string – Recipient name or business name.
• address: string – Street address (could be a single line or multiple fields concatenated).
• city: string
• state: string
• zip?: string – ZIP code (optional if not always present).
• dozens: number – Number of dozens of eggs to deliver.
• notes?: string – Any notes for this stop (from CSV or added later).
• sortIndex: number – The order of this stop in the route. Initially this reflects the order from the CSV import (or some default sorting like by address). If the user reorders the route, this field will be updated and persisted to preserve the custom order.
• status: DeliveryStatus – Current status: "" (not delivered yet), "delivered", or "skipped".
• deliveredAt?: string – Timestamp of delivery action (ISO string). Set when status becomes "delivered".
• skippedAt?: string – Timestamp of skip action. Set when status becomes "skipped".
• skippedReason?: string – If skipped, the reason selected or entered (e.g. "Not home" or custom text).
• createdAt: string – Timestamp when this Delivery entry was created/imported.
• updatedAt?: string – Timestamp of last update to this entry (e.g. when delivered/skipped).
• synced?: boolean – Flag indicating if this record’s latest status has been synced to the server. For new actions we set synced = false and flip it to true when the backup API confirms receipt.
• Route (DeliveryDay) – optional high-level entity to represent a route/day:
• routeDate: string – (or an id if we use non-date identifiers).
• name?: string – Human-friendly name (could be same as date or something like "Sioux Falls Run").
• totalStops: number
• deliveredCount: number
• skippedCount: number
• createdAt: string – When the route was imported.
• lastUpdatedAt: string – When any delivery on this route was last updated.
• currentIndex?: number – (optional) Index of the next stop to deliver. We might not store this if we can compute it dynamically, but it can be stored for quick resume.
The Route object mainly helps in listing available routes and tracking summary stats. We can derive things like deliveredCount by querying Delivery entries, so maintaining them here is optional. However, storing counts and a completed flag can make the UI snappier (e.g., showing “10 delivered of 24” on the dashboard without recomputing each time).
• DeliveryLog (Optional/Audit Trail):
• If we want an append-only log of all actions, we could have a separate store for logs. Each entry could have:
o id: string (UUID)
o deliveryId: string – reference to the Delivery.
o action: "delivered" | "skipped"
o timestamp: string
o extra?: string – e.g. skip reason or any other detail.
• This would allow a history of events (e.g., if a stop was marked skipped then later delivered, we’d have both events logged). In v1, since each stop likely gets one final action, we might not need a log, but it’s good for debugging or future analytics.
Data relationships: The data essentially has a one-to-many between Route and Delivery (a route day has many deliveries). We can enforce that by including routeDate in each Delivery and querying by it. The id on Delivery is unique across all routes (especially if using UUID). If we use composite keys (like routeDate + name) for identification, it gets messy if there are duplicates, so a single surrogate id is simplest.
Example: After importing a CSV, suppose it has 30 rows across two dates. We will have 30 Delivery objects in IndexedDB. If we also populate a Routes store, we might have 2 Route entries (with date, totalStops 15 each, etc.). Initially, all deliveries have status = "" and no deliveredAt/skippedAt. As the user marks deliveries, those fields get filled.
We include createdAt and updatedAt to help with robustness – e.g., if a backup happens, we know when each record was last changed. The app can also use these to order events if needed, or to ensure we don’t overwrite newer data with older (if something weird happens with syncing). The day-level metadata (Route) isn’t strictly required to function, but it simplifies route selection and can store summary info (which is useful for display and quick calculations).
Storage & Offline Design
IndexedDB via Dexie
We will use IndexedDB as the primary storage because it’s built for structured data and works offline. To interact with it easily, we’ll use Dexie.js (a well-established IndexedDB wrapper). Dexie allows us to declare a schema and use async methods to read/write without boilerplate. It’s also designed for exactly this scenario – fast, local-first storage with optional sync[2].
Database Schema: We’ll create an IndexedDB database (say name: "EggDeliveryDB") with at least two object stores (tables): - deliveries – key: id (string). We will index fields that we frequently query: - routeDate index (to retrieve all deliveries for a chosen day quickly). - Possibly an index on status as well, if we want to query incomplete vs complete stops easily, but we can also just filter in memory since number of stops is small. - Example Dexie schema definition: deliveries: 'id, routeDate, status'. (This means primary key is id; and we have indexes on routeDate and status). - routes (optional) – key: routeDate (or a composite key if needed). We may index routeDate as primary, and maybe nothing else is needed except if we wanted to query by completed/active status. This store can be omitted if we derive route list from deliveries on the fly, but having it can make listing available routes straightforward (just .toArray() on routes store). - We might add a logs store if implementing DeliveryLog for audit (key could be auto-increment or separate id).
Using Dexie, we set this up in code by defining a subclass of Dexie and calling .version(x).stores({...}) for our schema. For example, in a db.ts module:
export class AppDB extends Dexie {
deliveries!: Table<Delivery, string>;
routes!: Table<Route, string>;
constructor() {
super('EggDeliveryDB');
this.version(1).stores({
deliveries: 'id, routeDate, status',
routes: 'routeDate'
});
}
}
export const db = new AppDB();
Dexie will create the stores if they don’t exist. If we update the schema in the future, we’d bump the version number. Dexie handles versioned upgrades – you can define new .stores() or use Dexie’s upgrade hook to transform data as needed[4]. For instance, if in v2 we decide to add a new store or index, we’d call this.version(2).stores({ ... }) and Dexie will perform the upgrade. (Dexie uses IndexedDB’s version upgrade mechanism under the hood, which allows migrating data in a controlled way[5][6].)
Data Writing Strategy: Every time the user marks a delivery or skip, we perform a write to IndexedDB immediately. This will be done inside an async function using Dexie. Dexie operations return Promises that resolve when the transaction is committed to disk. We will await those writes so that we know the data is safely stored before proceeding. IndexedDB transactions ensure that once committed, the data is durable on device[7][8]. If the app crashes or is closed right after, the new status will still be in the DB when we reopen.
To ensure consistency between related data, we can use Dexie’s transactional features. For example, if we update a Delivery’s status and also want to update a Route’s deliveredCount, we can perform those two writes in a single Dexie transaction. Dexie provides db.transaction('rw', ...stores, async()=>{ ... }) for such cases. This way, either both updates succeed or neither does, keeping our data consistent[7]. (However, since we can always derive counts from deliveries, we might avoid storing redundant counts and just recompute on the fly – that keeps writes simpler: only one store to update per action.)
Reading data: We will load deliveries by route as needed (e.g., when a route is selected, query deliveries.where('routeDate').equals(selectedDate).sortBy('sortIndex') to get all stops in order). Dexie queries are promise-based or we can use liveQuery for reactive behavior. Given our data size is small, even reading all deliveries into memory is fine.
Ensuring Durability and Crash-Safety
• Atomic Updates: As noted, each Deliver or Skip action is a single atomic operation on the database. We either mark the record and it’s saved, or if there’s an error, we’ll catch it and alert the user. By using IndexedDB transactions, we ensure the database can’t be left half-updated. For example, if we were updating multiple objects (not likely here, but imagine marking one delivered and auto-advancing to next), we’d do it in one transaction so a crash won’t advance without marking delivered.
• Error Handling: In the normal case, Dexie writes will succeed quickly. But we will include error handling for the write Promises (using .catch). If a write fails (due to e.g. quota exceeded or a rare IndexedDB internal error), the app will notify the user (“⚠️ Save failed. Please try again.”). For a transient error (like temporary I/O issue), the user can retry the action. In practice, failures are very rare for such small writes. Running out of storage is highly unlikely given the tiny size of data (few KBs per route). However, if storage is full (maybe other apps hogging space), we should handle that gracefully. One approach is to call the Storage API’s persist function proactively (discussed below) to reduce the chance of an “QuotaExceeded” error.
• LocalStorage backup: As a belt-and-suspenders measure, we can maintain a JSON backup of the current route’s data in localStorage (or another simpler storage) in addition to IndexedDB. The idea is to have a second copy of critical data in case something catastrophic happens with IndexedDB (e.g. corruption or iOS evicts it unexpectedly). localStorage is simpler (synchronous string storage). We might store, say, the current route’s deliveries as a JSON string after each action or after every few actions. For example:
localStorage.setItem("lastRouteBackup", JSON.stringify(currentRouteDeliveries));
localStorage.setItem("lastRouteDate", currentRouteDate);
This backup would include at least the essential fields (name, address, status, etc.) to reconstruct the route.
On app startup, we can check: if the IndexedDB is empty or fails to load (which should not normally happen unless data was wiped), we can detect if lastRouteBackup exists. If it does, we inform the user and offer to restore from that backup. The restore process would parse the JSON and re-populate the Dexie DB (or at least allow the user to export that data as CSV so nothing is lost). In a worst-case scenario where IndexedDB is entirely unusable (very unlikely), the app could still allow exporting the JSON data via the backup mechanism.
In practice, this may never be needed, but it provides extra peace of mind. The overhead is small given the data size (writing perhaps a few KB to localStorage on each update is fine).
• Storage Persistance: A known risk on mobile PWAs is the browser purging data if it thinks storage is under pressure or the app is not used frequently (Safari had a notorious 7-day unused data eviction in the past). To mitigate this, we will use the StorageManager API to request persistent storage. In code:
if ('storage' in navigator && 'persist' in navigator.storage) {
navigator.storage.persist().then(granted => {
if (granted) console.log("Persistent storage granted");
});
}
If granted, the browser will not evict our data without user consent even under pressure[9][10]. Modern iOS Safari does support this API (as of iOS 15+ for installed PWAs). Typically, if the app is installed and the user engages with it often, browsers automatically grant persistence[11][12]. We’ll still call persist() on startup to be sure. With persistence, data shouldn’t be cleared due to inactivity or low storage (the user would have to explicitly delete the PWA or its data)[13][14]. Of course, the user could still manually clear website data or uninstall the PWA, so backups are important.
• Storage Space: The amount of data we store is minimal (likely under a few hundred KB, even with years of deliveries). This is well below any quota on modern browsers. iOS has a general 50MB default limit for service worker cache, but IndexedDB itself can often use much more if needed[15][16]. We are nowhere near these limits. In short, storage capacity is not a concern for our use case; we just guard against unexpected deletion.
Offline Behavior and Service Worker
When we add Angular’s PWA support, the CLI will generate a ngsw-config.json and include the Angular Service Worker in the app. The service worker will cache the app’s files (HTML, JS, CSS) on first load. This means after the initial visit (when she installs the PWA), the app will launch offline. For example, if the device has no connection and the app is started, the service worker will serve the last cached version of the app instead of showing a “no internet” error[1][17]. We need to ensure all necessary files (the main JS bundle, the polyfills, CSS, and perhaps a fallback page) are listed in the caching config. Angular’s default config will cache all build files and any files in assets. We don’t have a server API that must be cached (except maybe the CSV import/export which is done via File API, not HTTP, so no caching needed there).
Important for iOS: On iPhones, service workers only work when the app is online or in use; background sync is limited. But since we’re not fetching data from server for core usage, this is fine. We just rely on the service worker for offline caching of the app shell. (One caveat: if we update the app, iOS’s service worker will update the next time the app is opened with internet – Angular’s SW will handle version updates automatically, but iOS may require a manual refresh in Safari to pick up new versions. We will document that in deployment/testing.)
Online/Offline Detection
While the core doesn’t depend on connectivity, we want to sync when possible. We’ll use the Network Information events to detect connectivity. The browser provides navigator.onLine and events window.addEventListener('online') and 'offline'. We will leverage these: - On app startup, check navigator.onLine. If true and we have pending sync actions, trigger a sync attempt. - Subscribe to the 'online' event to get notified when connectivity is regained, and 'offline' to maybe update the UI (e.g., we can show an “Offline” indicator so the user knows the backup sync is queued). - We can wrap this in an Angular service (e.g., OnlineOfflineService) that exposes an Observable<boolean> for connection status changes[18][19]. But even a simple approach in component ngOnInit would work for our scope.
When online, we’ll attempt to push any unsynced changes (details in the Sync section below).
Additional Considerations
• Storage Eviction on iOS: As mentioned, iOS used to aggressively purge data for sites not visited in ~7 days (proactive eviction). With the PWA being used regularly, and with persistent storage request, this risk is minimal. We will still instruct the user to open the app periodically if it’s not in daily use, just to be safe. The persistent storage API should cover the inactivity case as well[20][21], meaning once granted, Safari shouldn’t delete our IndexedDB even if the app isn’t opened for a while. We’ll note that in our docs to reassure the user.
• Backup Frequency: We rely on immediate local writes for safety. For extra backup, the user has the manual “Backup now” button. We are not implementing automatic cloud backup for every entry (to avoid complexity and because network may not be available). But one could press “Backup now” mid-route as well if desired (e.g., after completing a large portion) – the app will allow that. The manual nature ensures the user consciously saves a snapshot (e.g., before closing for a break).
• Testing IndexedDB: We’ll include steps in the test phase to simulate failures: e.g., using Safari dev tools to delete the database and see if our localStorage backup kicks in, or toggling airplane mode to see that everything still works.
In summary, the storage strategy is robust: use IndexedDB as the primary, with transactions for reliability, request persistent storage to avoid eviction, and keep an extra JSON backup locally. Combined with the optional server sync, the chances of losing data are extremely low. Even in worst-case scenarios (device failure mid-route), the app encourages frequent backups (CSV export to iCloud) so data can be recovered from outside the device as well.
Backend & Security
(Note: This backend is optional – we can launch the PWA without any server and rely solely on manual CSV backups. But I’ll design it so it can be added later without affecting the offline functionality.)
Proposed API Design
We will implement a very simple REST API on your server (or as a serverless function) to accept backups. The API does not need to provide the app’s primary data – it’s only receiving data pushes.
Endpoints: - POST /api/sync – Accepts a batch of delivery records (or delivery events) to sync to the server. The PWA will call this to upload new deliveries or status changes. - Request: We can send JSON, e.g.:
{
"deliveries": [
{
"id": "uuid-1234",
"routeDate": "2025-11-24",
"name": "John Doe",
"address": "123 Main St",
"city": "Sioux Falls",
"state": "SD",
"zip": "57032",
"dozens": 2,
"status": "delivered",
"deliveredAt": "2025-11-24T15:30:00Z",
"skippedReason": null,
"updatedAt": "2025-11-24T15:30:00Z"
},
...
]
}
This would typically include any records that have synced = false on the client (meaning new or updated since last sync). We can send one at a time or multiple at once. I suggest batching multiple unsynced deliveries in one call for efficiency. The payload size will be very small (a few KB). - Response: Could simply be { status: "OK" } or a list of IDs that were saved. We might not need a detailed response – if the server returns 200 OK, we’ll assume all sent items are backed up. (Optionally, the server could respond with any item that failed or was duplicate, but in our simple design we’ll treat the operation as all-or-nothing success on 200). - GET /api/routes/:date (optional) – Allows downloading the server’s copy of a route data. This could return JSON or CSV for the specified date’s deliveries. This would be used only in a recovery scenario (e.g., if the device is lost, we could retrieve the data from the server). We might not integrate this into the app’s UI initially (since normally she’ll export CSV from the app directly), but having the endpoint is useful for manual admin recovery or future features. - Maybe GET /api/pending or GET /api/all – Actually, we explicitly do not want an unauthenticated “list all data” for security. If needed, we’d protect it with the same auth. But since all users are trusted, this is not critical. We can skip implementing this in v1.
The API is stateless – the client always pushes data. We are not doing complex two-way sync or conflict resolution (the app is the single source of truth for daily data, and the server just stores a copy). This simplifies things significantly.
Server-side Data Storage
We have a couple of options: - Relational Database (SQL): We could create a table for deliveries on the server that mirrors the Delivery model. Columns like id (primary key), routeDate, name, address, dozens, status, deliveredAt, skippedReason, updatedAt, etc. When a POST comes in, we do an “upsert” (insert or update). The id from the client can serve as a primary key to avoid duplicates. So if the same delivery id is sent twice (e.g., app retried), the second time we just overwrite the existing row with the same id (which is fine, data is the same or newer). - Using a database ensures consistency and easy querying (we can select by routeDate, etc.). Given the tiny scale, even SQLite or a file-based DB would do. If your website already has a DB, adding a table is straightforward. - Per-day JSON/CSV files: Simpler approach – treat each route date as a separate file on the server’s filesystem or cloud storage. For example, when we receive deliveries for 2025-11-24, we open a file 2025-11-24.json (or .csv). If it exists, update it; if not, create it. We could store an array of deliveries in JSON format. This makes it easy to retrieve whole route data by reading the file. The downside is a bit more manual handling of file I/O and potential concurrency issues (though concurrency isn’t a big worry with one user). - If implementing this, when a POST comes in, we’d read the existing file (if any), merge or replace entries that have the same id, then write it back. Or simply overwrite the whole file with the latest data array from the client (assuming the client always sends the full current state – but our plan is to send only changes, so better to merge). - CSV files could also be an option (append lines for deliveries), but since we might update statuses, appending multiple lines for the same delivery would get confusing. JSON is more direct.
Recommendation: Use a lightweight database or structured storage. A single table in SQLite or MySQL (whatever is easiest on your server stack) will work well and avoid having to manage multiple files. It also reduces the chance of data corruption (databases handle concurrent writes safely). Given the low volume, performance is not an issue either way.
If using a DB table deliveries_backup: - Primary key: id (string). - Columns for each field (routeDate, name, address, etc., plus status, deliveredAt, skippedReason, updatedAt). - On POST /api/sync, iterate through each delivery in the JSON: - If a row with that id exists, do UPDATE (but only if the incoming updatedAt is newer than what’s stored, to avoid any out-of-order updates – this is unlikely, but a good safeguard). - If it doesn’t exist, do INSERT. - We might also maintain a separate table for logs if we wanted to record every action (in case you want a history of changes), but likely overkill. We’ll focus on final state backup.
Data integrity: Because the server is not authoritative, the worst case if a sync is missed is just that the server copy is behind the device. That’s acceptable since the device will have the data and can export it. Our design avoids needing to merge changes from server -> client. The server is write-only from the client perspective in v1.
Authentication & Security
We will protect the API with a static API key (bearer token) approach. Each request must include an HTTP header like:
Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_SECRET_TOKEN>
The server will check this token on each call. If it’s missing or incorrect, the API returns 401 Unauthorized and does nothing.
This is a simple form of auth suitable for trusted use-cases: - We’ll generate a long random token (e.g., a GUID or 128-bit random string) that only the app and server know. High entropy and not guessable[22][23]. - Because this token will live in the Angular app code, we should treat it like a compiled-in secret. Important trade-off: In general, embedding a static secret in a client app is not highly secure – a determined attacker could extract it (by inspecting the JS bundle)[24]. However, for our scenario, the risk is very low: - The app is not public or widely distributed (only a couple of people will use it). - The data being protected (egg delivery logs) is not sensitive in a way that would attract malicious actors. - The main risk of someone stealing the token would be that they could spam or corrupt the backup data. This risk is mitigated by the obscurity (no one knows about this system) and the low value of doing so. - We will transmit data only over HTTPS. This prevents eavesdroppers from sniffing the token or data in transit. The server must have a valid SSL certificate (we can use Let’s Encrypt or similar). - The token will be stored in the Angular app’s configuration (perhaps in an environment.ts file). We won’t hard-code it in multiple places, just one central config, so if we ever need to rotate it, we can update and re-deploy the app. - On the server, we’ll store the expected token in an environment variable or config file (not plain in code or in logs). The check is simply compare incoming token == expected.
Additional reasonable protections without over-engineering: - Rate limiting: Since the API is private, we might not need it, but as a safety net, we could implement a simple rate limit (e.g., no more than X sync requests per minute per IP). The volume from our app will be extremely low (maybe tens of requests per day at most), so this is just to catch any abnormal usage (like if the token were stolen and someone is hitting the endpoint rapidly). If using a framework like Express, we can plug in a middleware for rate limiting. - CORS: If the frontend and backend are on the same domain (likely, if you serve the app from your domain, calls to /api/sync are same-origin), then CORS isn’t an issue. If for some reason the static app is hosted elsewhere, we’d set the CORS header to only allow the known origin. But we can probably deploy the Angular app on the same domain as the API (e.g., eggs.yourdomain.com with the API under that). - No open endpoints: We will not provide any unauthenticated endpoints that list data. The only endpoints require the token. So an external person cannot fetch any data without knowing the token. Even with the token, they can only fetch if they know a specific date (for the GET route) or push data. As an extra layer, the server could validate the source of requests (for example, check an Origin header to match your app’s origin). However, an attacker with the token could easily craft a request with the correct Origin, so the token is the main secret. We rely on TLS + token for security, which is reasonable for machine-to-machine calls in a controlled scenario[25][24].
• Backup authentication consideration: The StackExchange reference warns against static API keys in distributed apps because they can be extracted[24]. In our context we accept that risk given the low stakes, but we note it. If this were to be distributed widely, we’d consider a more robust auth (like each user has to enter a password or use OAuth), but that’s not necessary for a handful of trusted people.
• Data encryption: Not needed beyond HTTPS. The data isn’t particularly sensitive (names/addresses of egg customers), but it’s still private enough. HTTPS ensures it’s not intercepted in transit. At rest on the server, we could encrypt the database, but that’s overkill. We’ll just rely on the server’s security (no public access to the DB, etc.).
Sync Logic on the Client
The client will maintain a synced flag per delivery (or an array of pending changes in memory). The simplest way: - Whenever a delivery is marked delivered/skipped, set its synced = false and save to IndexedDB. - We also add it (or its id) to an in-memory pending sync queue. - If the app is online at that moment, we can immediately attempt to POST to /api/sync. We might batch multiple if, say, the user delivered 5 stops while offline and now comes online – in that case, the online event handler will find those 5 unsynced and send them together. - If the app is offline, obviously the request will fail or we skip attempting. Instead, we rely on the event: when navigator.onLine becomes true, we iterate through all deliveries with synced == false and send them. Dexie makes it easy to get those: deliveries.where('synced').equals(false).toArray(). - We send in either one batch or a few batches. Because our data is small, one batch is easiest: the body will contain an array of all pending items. - The server can process them in one go. This ensures if connectivity is spotty, we minimize overhead. - Alternatively, we could send one by one in a loop, marking each as synced as we get a response. But that could be slower if there are many (not likely many at once). - We should consider idempotency: if the same delivery is already on server, updating it again is fine (it will overwrite with the same data). So even if our client accidentally sends duplicates (e.g., due to a retry), the server upsert logic means no harm done beyond maybe a duplicate log entry. Using the delivery id as the primary key gives us inherent idempotency – multiple inserts of the same id just replace the row, avoiding true duplicates. - After a successful sync, we update those deliveries in IndexedDB to set synced = true. That way, we won’t resend them later. (We might keep them in the DB for record, but mark synced so they’re filtered out of pending.) - If the sync fails (network error or server error), we leave them as synced = false. Then the next time connectivity is regained (or next manual trigger), we try again. We can implement an exponential backoff for repeated failures. For instance, if a sync fails with server error, maybe wait 5 minutes before retrying automatically, to avoid hammering a downed server. But given the usage pattern (user likely closes app after finishing route), it might not keep retrying for long anyway. We’ll log the error and perhaps show a “Server backup failed, will retry when online.” message if it happens.
We must note: background sync limitations on iOS. Unlike Android Chrome, iOS doesn’t support Background Sync API. So the app can only sync while it’s open (foreground) or possibly for a short time after it’s closed (not reliable). This means if the device is offline during the entire route and the app is closed at the end, those changes won’t hit the server until the next time she opens the app with internet. This is fine, because the primary copy is on the device and she will also likely do a manual CSV backup in the meantime. The server is strictly secondary. We will document that the device should go online at some point and open the app to let it push data. If not, worst-case the server might be missing some days – but the user still has the CSV or can re-sync later.
One more thing: We might include the shared token in each request’s header (as described). In Angular, we can use HttpClient and perhaps an HttpInterceptor to automatically add the Authorization: Bearer ... header to our API calls. This avoids hardcoding it in multiple fetch calls. The token itself will reside in e.g. environment.prod.ts and not be visible in logs.
Trade-offs and Future Security
The chosen approach is lightweight. The main security trade-off is that a static token in a client app is not 100% secure. An attacker with knowledge and motive could extract it and potentially spam the API[24]. We accept this risk given the context (the data isn’t highly sensitive, and the user base is controlled). We mitigate it by: - Keeping the existence and URL of the API private (not advertising it). - Monitoring server logs for any unusual activity (we can set up an alert if an IP is making many failed requests). - If ever compromised, we can change the token and redeploy the app (since user count is small, that’s feasible).
We avoid building a full user authentication system (with login screens, JWTs, etc.) to keep the app simple for your aunt. All trusted users use the same token baked into the app. This is acceptable here but wouldn’t scale to a public app.
We also ensure all API calls use TLS. No plaintext HTTP. If the app is served over HTTPS (which it will be), then calls to a relative /api/sync will also use HTTPS automatically. We’ll enforce HTTPS on the server side as well (e.g., redirect HTTP to HTTPS, and maybe issue HSTS headers for your domain to prevent any accidental downgrade).
Finally, on the server, we’ll implement basic input validation: since the API is not exposed to public, we trust the app, but still parse JSON carefully and perhaps limit lengths (e.g., a ridiculously long name field could be dropped). We’ll also handle concurrency (though it’s likely only one device writing). If two devices did write concurrently, the worst that happens is last write wins for a given delivery id.
Summary: The server backup design prioritizes simplicity: one endpoint, one token, straightforward data storage. The security measures (HTTPS, static key auth) are sufficient for a “low-risk, low-volume” scenario without over-engineering.
UI / UX Design
The UI will be optimized for clarity, speed, and readability in a driving/delivery context. We want large text, minimal clutter, and obvious touch targets. We assume the app will be used on an iPhone, likely in portrait orientation, possibly with the phone mounted or held briefly at stops. We will follow general mobile UX guidelines like Apple’s HIG and accessibility best practices: - Use at least 16pt or larger font for body text, and even larger for headings, because older users and quick-glance reading benefit from larger text[26]. We’ll likely use 18-20pt for most text (and even bigger for important numbers). - Ensure interactive elements have at least a 44×44 point hit area (about 7mm)[27]. This prevents touch errors and aligns with Apple’s recommended minimum target size[27]. - High contrast color scheme (dark text on light background or vice versa) for visibility in various lighting (delivery routes might be in sunlight or low light). We’ll also test with iPhone’s light/dark mode to ensure it’s acceptable.
We’ll break down the UI by screen:
Home / Dashboard Screen
Purpose: Entry point for the app. From here the user imports data, selects which route/day to run, and can see high-level info. It also provides the backup function.
Layout: - Title/Header: A simple title like “Egg Delivery” or a branded name for the app. This could just be a text at the top. We might also show the app version or a small logo (maybe an egg icon) in the corner for a bit of personality. - Import CSV button: Prominently displayed, especially for first-time use. Possibly a large button or even just a big icon + label (“Import CSV”). Tapping it triggers the iOS file picker. This likely uses an <input type="file" accept=".csv"> under the hood. The design should make it obvious – perhaps a big “Import CSV” card with an upload icon 📂. After the first import, this button can be smaller or secondary, but it should always be accessible in case she needs to import an updated CSV. - Route Selection: Once a CSV is loaded (which could contain multiple days of deliveries), the home screen will list the distinct routes/dates. We have a couple design options: - Dropdown menu: A simple dropdown listing the dates available. E.g., a select input labeled “Choose delivery day”. The user opens it and taps the date she’s running. - List of buttons/cards: We could instead display each route date as a large list item or card that can be tapped. This might be better for touch – each item can be a 100% width row with the date. This avoids the small tap area of a tiny dropdown. Given the user might not be highly tech-savvy, a list of choices (“Today’s available routes: Jan 5, Jan 6, Jan 7”) could be more user-friendly. - We’ll accompany this with a label like “Select route/date:”. - The route names will be displayed in large text (e.g., 20pt), likely formatted as Monday, Jan 5, 2026 – 12 stops so she immediately sees the number of stops too. - Start/Resume Button: After selecting a route, there should be a clear action to begin the delivery run. A bright “Start Route” button will be at the bottom of the screen (or right below the route selection). This button is disabled or hidden until a route is chosen. Once enabled, it likely navigates to the Delivery Run screen (or possibly to the Route Planner screen, see below). - If a route was previously started and not finished, instead of “Start” it might say “Resume Route”. We can detect if the selected route has some deliveries marked delivered (meaning mid-progress). In that case, we label it Resume to indicate it will pick up where left off. - Backup Now button: This is an important action that should be visible but perhaps not as prominent as Start. We can place a “Backup now” button on the home screen, perhaps in a toolbar at the top or bottom, or as a persistent button. One UI idea: put a small icon (like a cloud upload or save icon) with text “Backup” in a top-right corner or a footer. It should be reachable but not confuse the main flow. - When tapped, it will trigger the CSV export/share workflow. We’ll also display a brief status like “Last backup: 3:42 PM” near it. Likely as a small subtitle or footer text. For example, under the Backup button or at the bottom of the screen: “Last backup: Today at 3:42 PM”. This reminds the user when they last saved data externally. - Summary of Current Route: Once a route is selected (or if one was active from before), the home screen can show a one-line summary: e.g., “24 stops • 10 delivered • 2 skipped (Sioux Falls – Jan 5)”. This gives context at a glance. We’ll update this summary in real-time if the user goes back to home in the middle of a run. - The summary can be in a smaller font than headings, maybe 16-18pt, but still clear. Use bullet or dot separators or vertical bars to separate numbers. - If no route is selected yet, this area can show something like “No route selected” or be hidden.
Styling & Spacing: - We’ll use plenty of whitespace (padding around buttons and list items) to avoid mis-taps. Each tap target (buttons, list entries) will be at least 44px in height[27] (likely we’ll make them much taller, like 60-70px, since a list row will contain text and maybe a subtext). - Colors: a light background (white or very light gray) with dark text for maximum contrast. Buttons can use a high-contrast color scheme: e.g., a blue or green for “Start Route” (since it’s positive/go) and a neutral color for backup. We have to ensure colors are distinguishable in bright daylight. We might choose a blue or green theme for primary actions (blue often implies sync as well). - Font: Use a sans-serif, large font. iOS uses the San Francisco font for readability; we can stick with the default system font or something like Helvetica/Arial for simplicity (the Angular default might be Roboto if using Material, but on iOS the system font might feel more native). - Icons: Use recognizable icons with text labels when possible, to aid recognition. For example, a folder/upload icon for import, a download/cloud icon for backup. The text label is still needed (for clarity and accessibility). - We will ensure that if the user has iOS accessibility Large Text turned on, our layout can accommodate it (using relative units like rem for font size and not absolutely fixed heights on critical containers).
Behavior: - On opening the app (assuming data is already imported), if there was an in-progress route, we might bypass this screen and go directly to the Delivery Run to continue (with perhaps a brief loading screen). However, to be safe, we can land on Home but show a prominent “Resume route from earlier” UI. Possibly even a modal “Resume last route?” with an option. We’ll refine this in resume logic – the idea is not to make your aunt re-select things unnecessarily. - If no CSV is loaded (first-time or after clearing), the Home screen will basically just show the Import CSV call-to-action and maybe an explanation “Import a CSV file to get started.” We should handle this empty state clearly to avoid confusion.
Route Planner Screen (Stop List View)
Purpose: This screen shows all the delivery stops for the selected route in a list form. It allows the user to review the route order, optionally sort or manually reorder stops, and possibly skip directly to a particular stop (though in practice she will likely go in order). It’s basically a plan/overview of the day’s deliveries.
Layout: - Header: Show the route name or date at the top. For example, “Route for Jan 5, 2026 (Sioux Falls)” in bold. Also maybe a count: “12 stops”. This confirms which route is being viewed. - List of Stops: Each stop is a card or list item. We will display key information in a large, readable format: - Name / Business – in bold, slightly larger text (maybe 18-20pt). If the name is too long, we may truncate or wrap to two lines (but usually names are short). - Address (City) – a secondary line, slightly smaller (16-18pt). We might omit the street detail here or abbreviate it, depending on space, to keep it concise. For instance, we could show just city/state for overview, or full address if it fits on one line with smaller text. Possibly “123 Main St, Sioux Falls, SD” in a single line under the name. - Quantity – the number of dozens, which is crucial. We should make this stand out. Options: - Put it in the same line as the name, e.g., “Alice’s Diner – 3 doz”. The number can be bold. - Or use a badge/chip UI element: a pill with “3 doz” or an egg icon 🥚+ number. This could be right-aligned in the list item so it’s easy to scan down the right side and see quantities. - Status indicator – if some stops are already delivered/skipped (like if user comes back to this screen mid-route or after finishing), indicate that: - Perhaps use a checkmark icon or green highlight for delivered, and a red slash or grey-out for skipped. - Or simply a text tag “Delivered” or “Skipped” next to the name. - Undelivered ones remain with no status indicator. - The goal is that at a glance she can see which ones remain. If she’s mid-route, the next pending might be highlighted. - Each list item should have a decent height (say 60-80px) to accommodate two lines of text comfortably. We must have enough spacing between items to avoid accidentally tapping the wrong one (if we allow tapping them at all). - Reordering Controls: If we allow manual reordering: - We can incorporate “drag handles” on each list item (e.g., a grip icon on the right side that the user can press and drag to move the item). Angular CDK DragDrop can style this. - Alternatively, an “Edit Order” button that toggles reordering mode. In that mode, maybe each item shows a reorder icon and the list becomes draggable. - Given the small user base, we could also skip fancy drag and just have sort options or no reordering. However, the requirement did mention optional drag-and-drop, so let’s plan for it as an enhancement. We’ll ensure the design leaves space for a small drag handle icon on each row (perhaps on the far right or left). - Sorting Options: Possibly provide a simple toolbar or dropdown to sort by different fields (like by City or by Name). We can have a button “Sort” that pops up a small menu: “Original Order, By City, By Name”. If she selects one, the list reorders accordingly. - If she chooses a sort, we might treat that as a one-time action or as a new default sortIndex. For example, if she sorts by city, we will update each Delivery’s sortIndex to reflect that order and save it. So that if she goes to the run screen, it follows the new order. - We should confirm with her usage: Does she often need to sort by city? If, say, deliveries are grouped by town, she might. We’ll include the feature since it was mentioned, but keep the UI simple (no complex multi-level sorts). - UI-wise, a small sort icon (like ↕️) on the top right of this screen could open the menu. Or even text links: “[ Sort: City | Name | Default ]”. - Navigation: There should be a “Start Delivery Run” button on this screen as well (unless we decide “Start Route” on home jumps straight into run). Assuming the user might come to Planner first to reorder: - Place a prominent button at the bottom, e.g., a full-width “Start Deliveries” button (maybe green). This will proceed to the first pending stop’s detail screen. - If we came here by hitting “Start Route” from home, perhaps we auto-scroll to the first stop and highlight it or auto-open the run for it. But it might be better UX to let the user look at the list then manually tap Start on this screen to actually begin. - Possibly allow tapping a specific stop to jump to its detail (out-of-order delivery). But jumping out of order is usually not advised unless she intentionally skips around. If she does tap one, we could open the Delivery Run screen at that stop’s card. This might be advanced usage, but we won’t focus on it initially. The safe approach is that tapping a list item could simply do nothing or open a small detail preview. We might just not make them tappable to avoid confusion.
Style: The list should be easy to scan: - Use alternating row background or separators to delineate items. A subtle horizontal line between stops or a slight shaded background on alternate rows can help. - Use clear typography hierarchy: Name bold, address regular, quantity emphasized. Perhaps something like:
[Name or Business] [Quantity badge]
[City, State] [Status/Notes]
If space permits, even put city on same line as name if short, and quantity on second line. But likely two lines per entry is good. - If notes exist for a stop (which might be something like “Leave at back door”), we could either show a note icon that she can tap to read, or display a truncated note on a third line in smaller font. Given we want minimal clutter, maybe an icon (📝) that indicates there is a note. If tapped, a tooltip or expansion could show it. However, this is an edge thing; she can also see the note on the Delivery Run card for that stop.
Touch considerations: If enabling drag-and-drop, ensure the drag handle isn’t too small. And ensure scrolling works without conflict (some libraries handle this by only starting drag if you grab the handle icon). The items will be large enough that accidental touches are less likely.
Safety: While driving, it’s unlikely she’d use this list; it’s more for pre-drive planning. But if she were to pull over and look, it should be clear. We won’t design this for on-the-go use beyond quick glances.
Empty state: If somehow a route has no stops (or if none selected), this screen would just show an empty message. Not common, but we can have text “No deliveries to show” if needed.
Delivery Run Screen (Delivery Card)
Purpose: This is the main screen used during the delivery run. It focuses on one stop at a time, showing all details needed for that stop and providing the Deliver/Skip actions. It should be extremely straightforward and glove-friendly (big buttons, minimal text entry).
Layout: We can think of this as a card or panel that occupies most of the screen, with maybe a progress indicator at the top and navigation controls at bottom.
Elements: - Progress / Step Indicator: At the top, we’ll show “Stop X of N”. For example, “Stop 5 of 12”. Possibly we also include a small progress bar graphic below it: - A thin horizontal progress bar (maybe 0-100% of route completed). As stops are delivered/skipped, this can fill accordingly. It’s a quick visual cue of how far along she is. We can compute progress as (delivered+skipped count) / total \* 100%. - The progress text “5 of 12” might be large enough to glance at. The bar itself can be a secondary visual (maybe a subtle grey track with a colored portion filled). - Recipient Name: The largest text on the screen should be the name of the person or business. We’ll put this front and center. If using a card metaphor, this is the card’s title. Font maybe ~24pt or even larger if short. We want it readable from a bit of distance if the phone isn’t right in front of her face. - Address: Directly under the name, we show the address. Possibly two lines (street on one, city/state/ZIP on next). We should keep the font large here too (perhaps 18-20pt). If the address is long, we can reduce font slightly or wrap. We want the address readable in case she’s comparing to mailbox or so. - Map/Navigation Button: Next to or below the address, we provide a way to open the location in Maps. We could implement this as a button labeled “Navigate” or “Open in Maps”. It could also be an icon (like a map pin icon) that the user can tap. For clarity, a button with text is safer (“Maps ➡️”). This should launch either Apple Maps or Google Maps with the address. Since it’s an iPhone, we might default to Apple Maps. We can use an href="https://maps.apple.com/?daddr=123+Main+St+Sioux+Falls" which will open the Maps app. - This button should be reasonably sized but maybe smaller than Deliver/Skip, since it’s not always used. Perhaps put it inline with the address or just below it in a smaller font/button style. - Another idea: make the address text itself tappable – but that might not be obvious. Better to have a dedicated button that says “Directions”. - Number of Dozens: This is critical info (how many egg cartons to give). We will make this very prominent, perhaps the same size as the name or even larger, and in a bold style or a contrasting color. - We could display it as a large number with label, e.g., “3 dozen” perhaps with an egg icon. - For visual emphasis, we might put it in its own line or in a badge. For example:
🥚 3 dozen
with a big egg emoji or icon. (Emoji might be fun but we have to ensure it’s clear; a simple “3 dozen” text is fine too.) - The goal is that at a glance, she knows how many cartons to grab for this stop. This should be near the top of the card, right after name/address. - Notes: If the CSV had any notes for this stop, show them in a smaller font, perhaps italic or in a lighter color, so that they’re visible but not overpowering. E.g., “Note: Leave by garage if not home.” - Place this below the primary info, maybe in a slightly smaller font (16pt) in a text area that can wrap. If the note is long, we can allow it to wrap to multiple lines. Given we plan minimal data, notes likely are one-liners. - We might prefix it with “Note:” or an icon like 🗒 to distinguish it. - Deliver and Skip Buttons: This is the most important interactive part. We will have two large buttons labeled “Deliver” and “Skip”. - Design/Size: Each button should be large and thumb-friendly. Typically, a minimum height of 44px is required[27], but we will go larger, like 50-60px height and taking up the width of the screen (with some margin at edges). - Placement: Usually, having them at the bottom of the screen is good (easy reach zone for thumbs, especially if phone is mounted or held in one hand)[28]. We can do side-by-side or stacked: - Side-by-side: Put Deliver on the right (if assuming right-handed use, the primary action is easier to hit on the right bottom)[27], and Skip on the left. Both would be roughly half the screen width minus margins. This layout allows a single row. However, each button will still be plenty wide (on an iPhone e.g. 375pt width minus margins, ~160pt each). That’s ~160 CSS px which is ~40+ mm – sufficient. We will ensure at least ~10px margin between them so user doesn’t accidentally hit the wrong one. - Stacked: Deliver on top (full-width), Skip beneath it (full-width). This gives even more touch area and isolates them (impossible to hit one while meaning the other because they’re vertically separated). It uses more screen space. On a small iPhone SE this might push one off-screen, but likely not if we design carefully. However, stacking might require more scrolling if the content above is long. We can likely fit all content on one screen without scroll if we’re careful, so side-by-side might be okay. - Color: Use color to distinguish actions: - “Deliver” can be a green or other affirmative color (blue is also commonly used for primary action). Green implies success/completion which fits delivering. - “Skip” can be a gray or orange/red. Red typically means a negative action (skip/cancel). We must be cautious with red – it should indicate “not delivered”. Using red could also make user double-check if they really want to skip (which is not bad). Alternatively, use orange or yellow for skip to imply caution (not done, but not as final as a deletion). - We’ll also consider color-blindness: green vs red is a common problematic combo. If we use those, also differentiate by label and perhaps icon (Deliver could have a checkmark icon, Skip a “⏭” or “🚫” icon). Probably text is enough though. - High contrast text on these buttons: white text on colored background. - Font size on buttons: Should be large – e.g. 18pt text – so she can’t miss what they say. - Skip Reason Prompt: When “Skip” is pressed, we should not immediately mark skipped without context. We present a prompt for reason: - This could be a modal dialog or an in-place pop-up. For simplicity, maybe a modal overlay with three options: “Not home”, “Canceled order”, “Other…”. - If “Other” is chosen, we show a text field to type a short note (or perhaps we already have a Notes field? But that’s separate from skip reason). - The prompt itself should be easy: big buttons for the two common reasons, and a text box for Other. The user might be doing this quickly, so we shouldn’t require typing if possible. If “Other” is rare, it’s fine if it requires typing a few words. - This dialog should also have a “Cancel” in case they hit Skip by mistake and decide not to skip. - Once a reason is selected/entered, we mark the delivery as skipped with that reason and proceed to the next stop. - UI: We could use an AlertController or MatDialog. For design: a simple white modal with dark text: “Reason for skipping?” and the choices. Buttons in the modal also at least 44px tall. It could slide up from bottom (like an action sheet) or appear center. - Next/Previous Navigation: Do we need explicit next/prev buttons? We plan to automatically advance to the next stop after Deliver or Skip. But what if she needs to go back to a previous stop’s info (say she skipped someone, then they call and she wants to deliver after all)? The UI could allow swiping between stops or a “Previous” button. - We should be careful: allowing going back could encourage out-of-order operation, which can complicate the logic. However, it might be useful if she accidentally skipped and wants to undo. Since we’re not implementing an “undo” per se, maybe a Previous button that goes to the prior stop’s card (which might be marked delivered/skipped already) could allow marking it pending again manually (we would have to allow changing status). - For v1, we might not implement previous/undo to keep it simple. If a mistake happens, the workaround could be to use the list view to manually edit that stop (not in scope, but we could just instruct to correct in Excel after exporting, since it’s rare). - So likely, no explicit back button on the run screen for now, aside from the top-level back (to exit the run to the list or home). - Finish State: When the last stop is completed (delivered or skipped), what do we show? - We can detect that there are no remaining stops with status "". At that point, instead of showing another stop card (there is none), we should show a “Route Complete” message. Possibly a celebratory check mark icon or “🎉 All deliveries done!” text. This screen can also prompt to backup or finish. - We might include a button “Finish & Export CSV” right there, to encourage saving results. Or just a “Done” button that returns to home screen (where she can then hit Backup). - This completion feedback is good UX so she knows she reached the end. We’ll incorporate this in the flow. - Visual Design of Card: - We’ll likely have a white background for the card content with black text for contrast. We can use a slightly different background for the screen behind if needed (maybe a light gray) to make the card stand out – but since this is a single view, it might just be full-screen content rather than a card on a background. - The arrangement should be mostly vertical (to accommodate varying text lengths). Center alignment vs left alignment: We should left-align text like address and notes for readability (English left-to-right). Maybe center the “Stop X of N” at top. - Use padding generously. For example, 16px padding on all sides of the content area so text isn’t against edges. - Use separation: perhaps put a divider line between the address block and the buttons to visually separate info vs action. Or just whitespace can do the job. - Possibly incorporate subtle color coding: e.g., once delivered, maybe that card (if user swipes back) could have a green tint. But since normally she won’t go back, not crucial. - Safety/Usability: - The text should be readable at a glance. By using large font and high contrast, we achieve that. The user should not have to squint or tap just to see info. - The buttons are large to prevent the need for precision. In a moving vehicle scenario (though she should be parked when tapping), large targets are essential to avoid accidental presses. We’ve ensured 44pt+ sizing and ample spacing[27]. - We minimize how much the user has to interact on each stop: ideally just one tap (Deliver) in most cases. For a skip, it’s two taps (Skip -> reason). This is about as simple as it can get while recording reason. - We avoid any scrolling on this screen if possible. We want all relevant info and buttons visible without needing to swipe, because that could be troublesome in a hurry. Given typical iPhone screen sizes and our content, it should fit unless notes are very long. If notes are too long, we might truncate with “…”. But since it’s a user-entered note, probably short.
Typography & Sizing Recap: - Titles (name, “Stop X of N”): ~24pt. - Address, dozens: ~18-20pt. - Notes, secondary text: ~16pt. - Buttons: ~18pt text, with padding to make their clickable area much larger (e.g., padding of 10px inside). - All these will be implemented with responsive units (we might use CSS like font-size: 1.5rem etc., and ensure html base font-size suits iPhone).
Example Layout (conceptual):
[Progress: Stop 5 of 12] (centered, small progress bar underneath maybe)

Big Bob's Diner (name, big text)
123 Elm Street
Inwood, IA 51240 (address, maybe one or two lines)
[ Navigate 📍 ] (button next to address or below)

DOZENS: 2 (very large or bold "2 dozen")

Note: Leave at front desk (smaller italic if exists)

[ Deliver ] [ Skip ] (two big buttons at bottom, Deliver green, Skip grey/red)
This gives a sense of hierarchy: The name and quantity jump out first, then address. The Skip is clearly separated and colored differently to avoid confusion with Deliver.
By adhering to these UI plans, we ensure the app is easy to use for your aunt in real-world conditions: text is readable without glasses, buttons are easy to hit without precision, and the workflow is straightforward (select route -> go through deliveries -> backup).
Implementation Roadmap
We will implement this project in phases, each producing a working subset of features. The approach is iterative, allowing testing at each stage (especially on the iPhone PWA aspects). The roadmap also highlights how to leverage AI coding tools (like GitHub Copilot or Cursor) for each task by breaking them into clear sub-tasks.
Phase 0: Project Setup
• 0.1 Create Angular App: Use Angular CLI to generate a new project, e.g. ng new egg-delivery-app --routing=true --style=scss. Choose SCSS (or CSS) for styling as you prefer. Routing enabled since we will have multiple screens.
• 0.2 Add PWA Support: Run ng add @angular/pwa --project egg-delivery-app. This will:
• Add @angular/service-worker package.
• Create a manifest.webmanifest and update index.html with the manifest link and theme-color meta.
• Create ngsw-config.json (default config that caches the app shell).
• Register the service worker in app.module.ts. The CLI does these steps automatically[29][30].
• 0.3 Configure Manifest: Edit manifest.webmanifest to set proper name, icons, etc.
• Name it something like “Egg Delivery” and short_name “EggDelivery”.
• Provide icons (we can create some PNGs of various sizes, possibly an egg icon or just use a simple logo). The CLI might have put placeholder icons – replace them with something appropriate. Ensure there’s a 192x192 and 512x512 PNG at least.
• Set "display": "standalone" (should already be in the default) so it launches without Safari UI.
• Set "orientation": "portrait" perhaps, since we expect usage in portrait mostly.
• Verify theme color and background color (maybe white or a light color).
• 0.4 iOS specific meta: In index.html, add:
<meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes">

<meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style" content="default">
 	These ensure the PWA runs in standalone on iOS and the status bar is, say, default (text on white) or black as per design needs. Also, add an <link rel="apple-touch-icon" href="icons/icon-512.png"> for the iOS home screen icon[31] (some iOS versions require this in addition to the manifest for the icon to show properly).
•	0.5 Set up basic Routing (Angular Router): Define routes for our pages. In app-routing.module.ts, set up routes for Home, Planner, and Run screens, e.g.:
 	const routes: Routes = [
  { path: '', component: HomeComponent },
  { path: 'plan', component: RoutePlannerComponent },
  { path: 'run', component: DeliveryRunComponent },
  // maybe add path: 'run/:routeDate' if passing param
  { path: '**', redirectTo: '' }
];
 	We might pass routeDate as a state or through a service rather than route param; but if route param, include it.
•	0.6 Install Dependencies: Add Dexie (npm install dexie) and perhaps PapaParse for CSV (npm install papaparse). Also, if using any UI kits (optional):
•	We might choose Angular Material for some components (buttons, dialogs, lists, icons, etc.). If so, run ng add @angular/material and select a theme (we can modify colors later). Material will help with things like the drag-drop (CDK) and perhaps some responsive layout. Even if not using Material styling heavily, the component library might speed up development (e.g., <mat-list>, <mat-dialog>).
•	Alternatively, we keep UI custom to meet our specific design – that’s fine too, we can just use plain HTML/CSS and maybe some icon library (like Bootstrap icons or FontAwesome) for convenience. Could install FontAwesome free icons if needed.
At the end of Phase 0, we should have the app skeleton: it can build and be installed as a PWA (with a dummy home page). We’ll test quickly by running ng serve --configuration=production (to enable service worker on localhost)[32], or building and serving via a simple HTTP server as Angular suggests, then adding to home screen on an iPhone to ensure it’s recognized as a PWA. This phase sets the foundation.
Phase 1: Data Model & IndexedDB Integration
•	1.1 Define Interfaces: Create a file models/delivery.model.ts (and maybe models/route.model.ts). Write the TypeScript interfaces for Delivery, Route, etc. Based on the earlier data model section:
 	export type DeliveryStatus = "" | "delivered" | "skipped";
export interface Delivery { ... }
export interface Route { ... }
 	Having these interfaces will help ensure type safety. You can prompt Copilot to generate the interface stubs using the fields described above.
•	1.2 Set up Dexie Service: We’ll create a service or module to manage the IndexedDB. There are two common patterns:
•	Singleton DB instance: As per Dexie docs, you can create a db instance and export it (like db = new Dexie('name')). But to integrate with Angular, some prefer to wrap it in an Injectable service.
•	Let’s do an Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' }) class StorageService that internally uses Dexie. For example:
 	import Dexie from 'dexie';
import { Delivery, Route } from './models...';

class AppDB extends Dexie {
deliveries!: Dexie.Table<Delivery, string>;
routes!: Dexie.Table<Route, string>;
constructor() {
super('EggDeliveryDB');
this.version(1).stores({
deliveries: 'id, routeDate, status',
routes: 'routeDate'
});
}
}

@Injectable({ providedIn: 'root' })
export class StorageService {
private db: AppDB;
constructor() {
this.db = new AppDB();
}
// Methods for CRUD...
}
You might get Copilot to help fill in methods like addDeliveries(deliveries: Delivery[]), getDeliveriesByRoute(date), updateDelivery(id, changes), etc.
• If using Dexie’s liveQuery for reactive data, we might not need it for our small use-case, but it’s available. We can keep it simple: call service methods that return Promises.
• 1.3 Implement CRUD methods:
• StorageService.importDeliveries(deliveries: Delivery[]): This will bulk add deliveries to the DB. Dexie supports table.bulkAdd() which is useful[33]. We might also add corresponding Route entries.
o Likely, we will clear any existing data first (if we treat each CSV import as replacing old data). So this method might do db.deliveries.clear() and db.routes.clear() before adding new data, to avoid mixing data sets.
o Then db.deliveries.bulkAdd(deliveries). Dexie’s bulkAdd will quickly insert an array of objects.
o If any error occurs (like duplicate id), catch it. We should ensure IDs are unique anyway to avoid that.
o For routes, we can derive unique routeDate values from the deliveries array and create Route objects (with counts). Or simply, after adding deliveries, do:
const dates = [...new Set(deliveries.map(d => d.routeDate))];
for (const date of dates) {
await db.routes.put({ routeDate: date, totalStops: deliveries.filter(d => d.routeDate===date).length, deliveredCount: 0, skippedCount: 0, createdAt: now, lastUpdatedAt: now });
}
We’ll keep deliveredCount 0 initially; it will be updated as user marks deliveries.
• getDeliveriesByRoute(routeDate: string): Promise<Delivery[]>: use Dexie’s where: return db.deliveries.where({ routeDate }).sortBy('sortIndex') to get them in order.
• markDelivered(id: string): find delivery by id (Dexie: db.deliveries.update(id, { status: "delivered", deliveredAt: new Date().toISOString(), updatedAt: now, synced: false })). This returns a Promise of number of records modified (should be 1). We should also maybe update Route: increment deliveredCount for that route and set lastUpdatedAt.
o We could incorporate the Route update in the same transaction. Dexie example:
await db.transaction('rw', db.deliveries, db.routes, async () => {
await db.deliveries.update(id, {...});
const delivery = await db.deliveries.get(id);
if (delivery) {
const route = await db.routes.get(delivery.routeDate);
await db.routes.update(delivery.routeDate, { deliveredCount: route.deliveredCount + 1, lastUpdatedAt: now });
}
});
This ensures both updates happen together.
o Similar for markSkipped(id, reason): status "skipped", skippedAt timestamp, skippedReason, synced false, and update route’s skippedCount.
• saveSortOrder(deliveries: Delivery[]): if user reorders stops, we’ll call this with the updated list (with new sortIndex values). It can do a bulkPut of those delivery objects back into Dexie. Dexie’s bulkPut will add or update existing by primary key.
• getRoutes(): Promise<Route[]>: to list all route entries (for route selection).
• Possibly clearAll() if we need to reset data on re-import.
These methods encapsulate all DB access so components don’t deal with Dexie directly. Use async/await syntax for clarity. Copilot can likely generate some of these from comments.
• 1.4 Testing Data Ops: Write a simple unit test or temporary component logic to ensure the DB works. For example, in HomeComponent (just for now), inject StorageService and do:
this.storageService.importDeliveries(sampleData);
this.storageService.getRoutes().then(routes => console.log(routes));
Run the app, import some sample small data and see in Chrome dev tools Application-> IndexedDB that data is stored. We can refine in later phases when real CSV is available. Also test that updating a record reflects in the DB.
• 1.5 Migrations (plan): Document in code that if we change schema (like add an index or new store), we’ll bump Dexie version and handle upgrade. For instance, if in future we add a completedAt field globally or a new object store, we’d do:
this.version(2).stores({ deliveries: 'id, routeDate, status, completedAt' });
Dexie will call upgrade where we can set default values if needed. Right now, we likely won’t need to implement an upgrade logic for v1 since we include all fields from the start. But it’s ready.
• 1.6 Persist permission: Add a call in app startup (maybe in app.component.ts or in StorageService constructor after DB init) to navigator.storage.persist() and log the result. This doesn’t have UI impact but helps behind scenes. We could also use navigator.storage.estimate() to log available space as curiosity.
End of Phase 1: We have a storage layer ready. The app doesn’t yet use it in UI, but we can manually verify adding and reading data. The critical part is done: every other feature will build on this.
Phase 2: CSV Import & Export
• 2.1 CSV Import Implementation:
• In HomeComponent, add an <input type="file" accept=".csv" hidden #fileInput> and a button “Import CSV” that triggers fileInput.click(). This allows using the native iOS file picker via Safari. On file selection, we get a File object in the input’s change event.
• Use FileReader or PapaParse to read the CSV file:
o If using PapaParse: Papa.parse(file, { header: true, complete: (results) => { ... } }). PapaParse can parse CSV text into an array of objects where keys are from header row[34]. This is convenient because we can map directly to our fields.
o If not using Papa, we can manually do FileReader:
const reader = new FileReader();
reader.onload = () => {
const csvText = reader.result as string;
// parse csvText manually or via some library
};
reader.readAsText(file);
o PapaParse has an Angular wrapper too, but we can just use it directly in this simple case.
• Parse assumptions:
o The CSV has columns like “Date, Name, Address, City, State, ZIP, Dozens, Notes” (based on context). Possibly with those exact headers. We should handle variations like if “ZIP” is missing or notes may be optional.
o We’ll make our parser flexible but primarily targeted at the known format. For any missing fields, we set default (like notes optional).
• After parsing, we get array of objects. We need to transform each into a Delivery object:
deliveries = results.data.map(row => ({
id: generateUUID(),
routeDate: row.Date,
name: row.Name,
address: row.Address,
city: row.City,
state: row.State,
zip: row.ZIP,
dozens: Number(row.Dozens) || 0,
notes: row.Notes || "",
sortIndex: 0, // we'll assign after grouping
status: "",
createdAt: new Date().toISOString(),
... etc (no deliveredAt/skippedAt yet, synced false default)
}));
We should probably assign sortIndex in the order they appear in CSV. If PapaParse preserves order, we can just use the index in map:
deliveries = results.data.map((row, idx) => ({ ..., sortIndex: idx }));
However, if the CSV contains multiple days mixed, it might not be sorted by date. Perhaps the Excel is sorted by date then by some order. We might want to group by date and sort within each group by how they appeared.
o We can do: for each unique date, maintain a counter. If input is sorted by date, then simply doing map with idx as sortIndex gives a global sequence that is fine if we don’t mix days when running route. But since we filter by date when viewing, the sortIndex doesn’t need to be continuous overall, just relative within a date.
o Simpler: sort the array first by date then by original order. Then when we insert to DB, we can assign sortIndex = sequential per date group.
o Alternatively, store sortIndex as the row index within its date group. For clarity and to avoid confusion, we might do grouping:
const grouped = {};
deliveries.forEach(row => {
if (!grouped[row.Date]) grouped[row.Date] = [];
grouped[row.Date].push(row);
});
for (const date in grouped) {
grouped[date].forEach((row, idx) => row.sortIndex = idx);
}
deliveries = Object.values(grouped).flat();
o That ensures each date’s stops start at index 0. The absolute ordering between different dates doesn’t matter since we always query by date.
• Use the StorageService to save:
await storageService.importDeliveries(deliveries);
This will clear old data and store new.
• After import, update the UI state: e.g., populate a list of route options in home component from storageService.getRoutes().
o Possibly navigate the app to route selection view (or show it on home).
o E.g., call this.storageService.getRoutes().then(routes => this.routes = routes). Then the template can show routes.
• Add error handling: If CSV parse fails (e.g., wrong format), show a message. We can detect if required columns are missing and alert “CSV format not recognized. Please include headers like Name, Address, etc.”
• 2.2 CSV Export Implementation (Backup Now):
• We need to gather the data to export. We have two approaches:
o Export only the current active route’s data.
o Export all data currently in the app. The question suggests either could be done; to be safe, exporting everything ensures nothing is missed. If the CSV originally had multiple days, exporting all will include delivered statuses for completed days and pending for future days. That might be fine or even desirable (my aunt might use that to update her Excel). On the other hand, if she only cares to save today’s results, we could filter.
o We can provide an option or just document that it exports all loaded data. Perhaps we do all data for completeness.
• Implementation:
o Use StorageService to get all deliveries. That could be db.deliveries.toArray(). Or get by current route if doing one.
o Format to CSV text. We can use Papa.unparse (the inverse of parse) to convert JSON to CSV string easily. For example:
const allDeliveries = await db.deliveries.toArray();
const csv = Papa.unparse(allDeliveries, { columns: [...] });
We specify the columns to output in the desired order. We likely want to output the same columns as original plus new ones: e.g. Date, Name, Address, City, State, ZIP, Dozens, Notes, Status, DeliveredAt, SkippedReason. (We can omit internal fields like id, sortIndex, synced, etc. Those are not needed in Excel). The status will be "delivered" or "skipped" or empty for not done. DeliveredAt/SkippedAt times can be included for logging. If she doesn’t need timestamp detail, we could omit them, but the requirement said include timestamps and status in export. So yes, include those.
o Ensure to format Date and timestamps in a user-friendly way or ISO. Probably ISO 8601 or a recognizable format. Excel can parse ISO or we can format to mm/dd/yyyy for date if needed. But likely ISO or just the same date string as input for routeDate. deliveredAt and skippedAt we can leave as ISO strings (which Excel will just treat as text unless parsed).
o Once csv string is ready:
o Create a Blob: const blob = new Blob([csv], { type: 'text/csv;charset=utf-8' });.
o Now trigger download or share.
o For iPhone, the better UX is Share sheet. Use the Web Share API if available:
if (navigator.share && typeof navigator.share === 'function') {
const file = new File([csv], `EggDeliveries-${new Date().toISOString().slice(0,10)}.csv`, { type: 'text/csv' });
navigator.share({ files: [file], title: 'Egg Deliveries Backup', text: 'Deliveries backup' })
.catch(err => console.log('Share failed', err));
} else {
// fallback: use anchor download
}
iOS Safari from version ~15 supports file sharing via navigator.share (Web Share API level 2)[35]. We just need to ensure we use a File object (as Safari had issues with Blob alone[36]). That’s why we construct a File from blob.
 If that works, it will open the iOS share sheet where the user can select “Save to Files” (iCloud or local) or email it, etc. This is exactly what we want. We should test this on a real device to confirm.
o If navigator.share is not available or fails (e.g., if testing on desktop browser), fallback to classic download:
 Create an <a> element, set href = URL.createObjectURL(blob), download = "EggDeliveriesBackup.csv", then programmatically click it. This will either download the file or open the "save" dialog. On iPhone PWA, clicking an anchor with a blob URL and download attribute should prompt to save in Files app (it might open a quick look and then user can share to Files).
 Alternatively, use FileSaver.js or similar (we included papaparse but not FileSaver; we can just do it manually).
o After triggering, update the “Last backup” timestamp in UI: set it to now. Possibly store it in localStorage.setItem('lastBackupTime', Date.now()) so we persist it.
• Hook this up to the “Backup now” button in Home (or maybe also in a menu on run screen).
• Make sure to handle errors (if share fails or user cancels, just log, not critical). The user can always try again.
• 2.3 Update UI for Import/Export flows:
• HomeComponent now needs to display the route list after import. So implement logic:
o If routes list is empty (no data), show an instruction to import.
o If not empty, show route selection UI (we’ll flesh this out in Phase 3 UI building).
• For now, maybe console log or use a basic select to choose route and a button to navigate to plan or run (we’ll refine in Phase 3).
• When route is selected, we may store that in a service or state (like a SelectedRouteService or just in a variable in a top-level component or even localStorage for resume). For now, store in e.g. an appStateService or in StorageService we can keep a currentRouteDate property.
• We’ll handle navigation to the next screen in Phase 3, but ensure we have the data side ready.
End of Phase 2: We should be able to import a CSV file via the UI and have it stored in IndexedDB, and manually trigger an export to get a CSV download/share of the (unfiltered) data. Testing: try with a sample CSV, then perhaps use Chrome dev tools to verify DB content, then press backup and ensure a file is offered.
Phase 3: Core UI (Home, Route Planner, Delivery Run)
Now we build the actual user interface components and link the data.
• 3.1 HomeComponent UI:
• Use Angular template to implement the design discussed:
o If no data: show a welcome message and an “Import CSV” big button.
o If data present:
o Show the “Choose route” UI: For simplicity to start, implement as a select dropdown (<select [(ngModel)]="selectedRoute"> binding, with options generated from routes list). Also add a label or heading “Select delivery day:”.
o Add a “Start Route” button (disabled if no route selected). On click, it will call a function like onStartRoute().
o Backup Now button: place it maybe as a smaller button somewhere (possibly just below Start or in header).
o Show last backup time if available (e.g., bind a variable that we update after backup).
o Summary: If a route is selected (or there’s an active route ongoing), show the summary line. We can compute summary by counting deliveries array: e.g., total = count, deliveredCount = deliveries.filter(d=>d.status=='delivered').length etc. Alternatively, since we update Route in DB with counts, we could use that. Simpler: when route is selected, fetch all deliveries for it (we might need them for route planner anyway) and compute delivered/skipped.
o For now, we might skip the summary or just show “X stops” and leave delivered count dynamic.
o Style the component with proper CSS:
o Use flex or grid to layout elements vertically.
o Ensuring buttons are large (e.g., using button { font-size: 1.2rem; padding: 0.5rem 1rem; }).
o Possibly use Angular Material components: e.g., <button mat-raised-button color="primary">Import CSV</button> for styled buttons, <mat-select> for dropdown, etc. Material can automatically give a nice look and accessible touch sizes. If not using Material, we style manually.
o The import file input remains hidden; we already set up its click in Phase 2. Ensure the “Import CSV” button’s click triggers the fileInput.
o Events:
o On file input change -> call handleImport(file) (from Phase 2 logic).
o After import success -> refresh route list (this.routes = await storage.getRoutes()), and maybe automatically select one if there’s only one.
o On Start Route -> store selected route as current and then navigate to either Planner or Run.
 Possibly go to Planner screen (if we want them to see list first). But perhaps simpler: go directly to Run screen, and from there they can go back to list if needed. However, since reordering is optional, maybe we do want to present Planner first.
 We can implement navigation as: this.router.navigateByUrl('/plan') (and share selected route info via a service or query param).
 Alternatively, if skipping planner for now, navigate to '/run'.
o On Backup Now -> call backup function from Phase 2.2 (which will produce share sheet).
• The HomeComponent is basically functional after this, though we will refine UI polish later.
• 3.2 RoutePlannerComponent UI:
• This component will display the list of stops for the selected route and allow reordering/sorting.
• Data setup: When navigating to this component, we need to know which route’s data to show. We have a few options:
o Pass route date as a route param in the URL (/plan/2025-11-24). Then in ngOnInit, read param and call storage.getDeliveriesByRoute(date) to get deliveries.
o Or use a shared service that holds currentRouteDate set by Home. For simplicity, let’s do route param (that way if the user refreshes the PWA on the planner URL, it can still retrieve by param).
o So define route as { path: 'plan/:routeDate', component: RoutePlannerComponent } and similarly for run.
o In RoutePlannerComponent, inject ActivatedRoute and StorageService, get routeDate param in ngOnInit, then load deliveries list: this.storage.getDeliveriesByRoute(routeDate).then(deliveries => this.deliveries = deliveries).
o We should also sort them by sortIndex (our DB query might already do that if we used .sortBy('sortIndex')).
• Template: Use an *ngFor to list deliveries array.
o Each item, display fields as per UI design:
o Possibly use an <ion-list> or <mat-list> for styling, or just <ul><li> with custom CSS.
o For example:
<div class="stop-item" *ngFor="let stop of deliveries; let i=index">

  <div class="stop-main">
    <span class="stop-name">{{ stop.name }}</span>
    <span class="stop-qty">{{ stop.dozens }} dz</span>
  </div>
  <div class="stop-sub">
    <span class="stop-address">{{ stop.city }}, {{ stop.state }}</span>
    <span class="stop-status" *ngIf="stop.status">
      {{ stop.status | titlecase }}
    </span>
  </div>
</div>
 	This is a simplified structure: .stop-main contains name on left, quantity on right; .stop-sub contains city/state on left, status on right if delivered/skipped.
o	Add a border-bottom or margin between items.
o	If using Material, we could do:
 	<mat-list>
  <mat-list-item *ngFor="let stop of deliveries">
    <div mat-line>{{ stop.name }} – <strong>{{ stop.dozens }} dozen</strong></div>
    <div mat-line>
      {{ stop.city }}, {{ stop.state }}
      <span *ngIf="stop.status" class="status-tag">{{ stop.status }}</span>
    </div>
  </mat-list-item>
</mat-list>
 	Material will style lines nicely. But customizing it to have right-aligned text might require CSS.
o	We'll ensure delivered/skipped items are visually distinct: e.g., we could gray them out: .stop-item.delivered { opacity: 0.6; } with a small ✔ icon perhaps. If we want, we can conditionally add a class: [ngClass]="stop.status".
o	For drag-and-drop: We can add the CDK directives:
	Wrap list in <div cdkDropList (cdkDropListDropped)="drop($event)">.
	Each stop item gets cdkDrag and optionally a handle like <span cdkDragHandle>::</span>.
	We then implement drop(event: CdkDragDrop<Delivery[]>) in TS to update the deliveries array order and call storageService.saveSortOrder with new order.
	This requires importing DragDropModule from @angular/cdk/drag-drop.
	Given time, we can add this feature. If not, skip now and note it as enhancement.
o	Sorting options: Perhaps a simple select or buttons at top: “Sort by: [Original|Name|City]”. Implement by sorting the deliveries array accordingly and then calling saveSortOrder (because if she leaves the screen, we want that order saved).
	Could use JavaScript sort: by city: deliveries.sort((a,b)=>a.city.localeCompare(b.city)) then assign new sortIndex sequentially.
	For name likewise.
	The "Original" could revert to sortIndex order (we have that inherently).
	We’ll ensure after sorting or drag, we update sortIndex fields and save to DB so that if she goes to run screen, it uses the updated order.
o	“Start Deliveries” button:
	Place a button at bottom or top (maybe bottom for easy reach).
	Clicking it navigates to the DeliveryRunComponent. (Navigate to /run/2025-11-24 for example).
	Alternatively, we could allow tapping an individual stop in the list to jump to that stop in run mode (not implementing initial).
	Let’s do a single Start button that always starts at the first pending stop (the DeliveryRunComponent logic will handle which one comes first).
•	Styles:
o	Ensure the list is scrollable if it overflows (e.g., if 50 stops, should scroll).
o	Touch target: each item row could potentially be tappable if we wanted to open details, but we don’t plan that, so no need for each to be a button. That said, for accessibility, static list is fine.
o	Use CSS to ensure at least 10-12px padding around text for readability.
o	Status tag: could style .status-tag { font-size: 0.9em; color: green/red } to highlight delivered vs skipped.
•	Functional checks:
o	If a route has no deliveries (shouldn’t happen), display a message.
o	If we navigate here mid-route (some delivered), ensure those are shown as delivered.
o	After reordering, when we start the route, it should follow the new order. We have to ensure the DeliveryRun reads sortIndex ordering from DB.
•	3.3 DeliveryRunComponent UI:
•	This is the critical screen. We implement as described:
•	Data handling:
o	Similar to planner, use route param to know which route we’re dealing with. Let’s say route is passed as :routeDate.
o	We need to know which stop to show first. As discussed, the logic: find the first Delivery with status == "" (pending) for that route, sorted by sortIndex.
o	Implement in ngOnInit:
 	const routeDate = this.route.snapshot.paramMap.get('routeDate');
const allStops = await storage.getDeliveriesByRoute(routeDate);
this.stops = allStops; // keep them if needed for context
const nextIndex = allStops.findIndex(d => d.status === "");
if (nextIndex === -1) {
   // no pending stops (route finished)
   this.finished = true;
} else {
   this.currentIndex = nextIndex;
   this.currentStop = allStops[nextIndex];
}
o	We will maintain state: currentIndex or currentStop.
o	Also calculate total count, and maybe deliveredCount for progress. this.total = allStops.length; this.doneCount = allStops.filter(s => s.status !== "").length;
o	We should subscribe to changes if coming back from skip reason prompt or something, but we can also update state manually on actions (deliver/skip will update the local stops array and DB).
o	Possibly, instead of pulling all stops at once, we could fetch one by one or something. But easier to have them in memory to update on the fly for progress.
•	Template:
 	<div class="run-container">
  <div class="progress-header">
    <div class="step-count">Stop {{ currentIndex+1 }} of {{ total }}</div>
    <div class="progress-bar"><div class="progress-fill" [style.width.%]="(doneCount/total*100)"></div></div>
  </div>

  <div class="stop-card" *ngIf="!finished">
    <h1 class="stop-name">{{ currentStop.name }}</h1>
    <div class="stop-address">
      {{ currentStop.address }}<br/>
      {{ currentStop.city }}, {{ currentStop.state }} {{ currentStop.zip }}
    </div>
    <button class="maps-button" (click)="openMaps()">Navigate</button>
    <div class="dozens">🗸 {{ currentStop.dozens }} dozen{{ currentStop.dozens>1?'s':'' }}</div>
    <div class="note" *ngIf="currentStop.notes">Note: {{ currentStop.notes }}</div>
  </div>

  <div class="route-complete" *ngIf="finished">
    🎉 All deliveries completed!
  </div>

  <div class="action-buttons" *ngIf="!finished">
    <button class="deliver-btn" (click)="markDelivered()">Deliver</button>
    <button class="skip-btn" (click)="skipPrompt()">Skip</button>
  </div>
  <div class="backup-reminder" *ngIf="finished">
    <button class="backup-btn" (click)="backupNow()">Backup now</button>
    <button class="done-btn" (click)="finishRoute()">Done</button>
  </div>
</div>
 	This is a rough structure:
o	A header with stop count and a progress bar. The progress bar could be a simple div with background color that we adjust width for.
o	The stop-card shows name (using <h1> or <div> with a large class), address lines, a “Navigate” button (small).
o	The dozens info – probably with a bold number. I used 🗸 (check mark) but maybe use an egg emoji or just text "Dozens: X".
o	Note if exists, smaller text.
o	The action buttons: two big buttons as discussed. We will style them with CSS to be side by side or stacked. Possibly use flex: .action-buttons { display: flex; justify-content: space-between; } .deliver-btn, .skip-btn { flex: 0 0 48%; }.
o	After finished, show a message and prompt backup. We put Backup and Done buttons (Done could navigate back home or just home automatically after backup).
•	Skip Reason Dialog:
o	We have the skipPrompt() method in TS. Implement it to show a dialog. Options:
o	Use window.prompt for simplicity (not pretty, but functional): const reason = prompt("Reason for skipping:", "Not home"); – But that’s not nice UI.
o	Use Angular Material Dialog if using Material. If not, implement a simple <div class="overlay"> that we conditionally show in the template:
	For example, use an *ngIf showSkipReason that when true, shows a full-screen semi-transparent overlay with a small panel:
 	<div class="skip-overlay" *ngIf="showSkipPopup">
  <div class="skip-dialog">
    <h3>Skip reason</h3>
    <button (click)="confirmSkip('Not home')">Not home</button>
    <button (click)="confirmSkip('Canceled')">Canceled</button>
    <div>
      <input [(ngModel)]="otherReason" placeholder="Other reason"/>
      <button (click)="confirmSkip(otherReason)">Other</button>
    </div>
    <button (click)="cancelSkip()">Cancel</button>
  </div>
</div>
	Style this overlay to cover screen (position: fixed; top:0; bottom:0; background: rgba(0,0,0,0.5)), and the dialog centered with white background and big buttons.
	This might be some extra work, but we can do it quickly.
o	For brevity, if using Material, we could do:
 	const dialogRef = this.dialog.open(SkipReasonDialogComponent);
dialogRef.afterClosed().subscribe(reason => { if(reason) this.performSkip(reason); });
 	And create a small SkipReasonDialogComponent with template listing reasons.
o	But since we want to avoid too many extra components, an inline overlay might be fine.
o	The confirmSkip(reason) will call performSkip(reason) which does the actual marking skip in DB and moving to next stop (similar to markDelivered).
•	TS Logic:
o	markDelivered():
o	Use storageService.markDelivered(currentStop.id). Then update local state:
	this.stops[this.currentIndex].status = "delivered"; deliveredAt = now; etc. And maybe increment doneCount.
	Advance this.currentIndex to the next index where status == "". If none, finished = true.
	Update currentStop accordingly.
o	Also immediately call sync service or mark unsynced as done by storage will mark synced=false anyway. The sync will pick it up.
o	Also maybe update route in DB (StorageService will have done deliveredCount++ in markDelivered).
o	Use detectChanges if needed to update template, but Angular should pick up since we mutated the array and changed component state.
o	performSkip(reason):
o	Similar: storageService.markSkipped(id, reason). Then local update, increment doneCount, advance index.
o	If skip was done, possibly consider if we want to allow going back later. But for now, skip is final like delivered, just different status.
o	openMaps():
o	Use window.open with Apple Maps link. E.g.: window.open('https://maps.apple.com/?daddr=' + encodeURIComponent(currentStop.address + ' ' + currentStop.city + ' ' + currentStop.state + ' ' + currentStop.zip));
o	This will likely open the external Maps app or Safari. In PWA, leaving to another app might suspend our app – but that’s fine, it will resume when they come back.
o	We should ensure that the address is properly formatted. Alternatively, use Google Maps link https://www.google.com/maps/search/?api=1&query=....
o	Apple maps daddr param should work for navigation directions.
o	backupNow():
o	We can simply call the same function as Home’s backup (perhaps via StorageService or a BackupService if we made one).
o	Maybe easier: we already implemented backup in Home. Perhaps factor the backup logic into StorageService or a UtilityService so both Home and Run can call it.
o	Or we can navigate back to home and ask user to backup there. But better to allow directly here at finish.
o	Possibly, to avoid duplicate code, we could have BackupService with one method exportCSV() that encapsulates the logic from Phase 2.2. Then inject and call that.
o	Implementing that now: Create a service that uses storageService to get deliveries and does the papaparse and share logic. Then HomeComponent and DeliveryRunComponent can both use it.
o	finishRoute():
o	This can navigate to home (perhaps clearing current route state).
o	We might also want to clear currentRouteDate from our global state (like localStorage) because route is done.
o	Just do this.router.navigateByUrl('/'). On Home, maybe we detect if that route is done and perhaps remove it from active routes? (We might keep it until user imports new CSV).
o	Actually, if a route is finished, it’s still in DB with statuses. We can leave it until next import. Home will show delivered count equals total. That’s fine.
o	Possibly highlight it as completed. But not needed now.
•	UI Polish:
o	Use CSS to enforce the design:
o	.deliver-btn with background green, white text, large font, border-radius maybe small, etc.
o	.skip-btn with background gray or orange, white text.
o	Both with height ~50px and width ~45% (if side by side).
o	.progress-bar style with a light gray bar and .progress-fill with green or blue width.
o	.stop-name font-size: maybe 1.5rem (~24px).
o	.stop-address font-size: 1.1rem (18px), line-height a bit more for multiline.
o	.dozens font-size: 1.3rem (maybe 20px) and bold.
o	.note font-size: 1rem (16px) italic or different color.
o	If using the overlay for skip reason, style it as described, with large buttons as well.
o	Make sure to test on actual device or simulator because different iPhone sizes might have different scaling.
•	3.4 Connect Resume functionality:
•	Possibly at this phase, implement that if the app closes and reopens, it automatically resumes last route:
o	When a route is started (when we navigate to run), we can store localStorage.setItem('currentRoute', routeDate).
o	Also store currentIndex or simply rely on DB state as earlier plan.
o	On app init (maybe in app.component.ts), do:
 	const route = localStorage.getItem('currentRoute');
if (route) {
   // check if that route is finished or not
   const stops = await storage.getDeliveriesByRoute(route);
   if (stops.some(s => s.status === "")) {
      // still pending stops -> resume
      this.router.navigateByUrl('/run/' + route);
   } else {
      localStorage.removeItem('currentRoute'); // completed previously
   }
}
 	This way, if app was closed mid-route, next open goes right into run screen for that route. If it was finished, we clear the flag.
o	Also after finishing route (when user taps Done or we detect finish), remove currentRoute from storage.
o	Also, if the user manually goes back to Home mid-route (maybe to check something), we should still consider that route in progress. Keep the localStorage flag until finished.
o	If a new CSV import happens while a route is in progress (unlikely usage), we might override anyway. We can handle that by clearing the flag on new import or prompting.
•	3.5 Basic Testing in browser:
•	Simulate a scenario:
o	Import a sample CSV with multiple stops.
o	Select route, go to plan (if implemented).
o	Possibly reorder a couple of stops, ensure reordering works (check DB or see list order changed).
o	Hit Start Deliveries.
o	Mark a few as Delivered/Skipped, verify that progress count updates and the next stop info appears.
o	If skip, test the reason prompt.
o	Perhaps simulate going offline (turn off network in dev tools) and marking delivered – the app should still function and mark in DB. (Sync will just queue.)
o	Refresh the page mid-run to simulate app close:
o	If resume logic works, it should take you back to run screen at the correct stop.
o	If not, at least Home should show route with partial delivered count so you can manually resume.
o	Finish all stops. Confirm “All deliveries completed” message appears.
o	Click Backup now (simulate saving file).
o	Click Done, which should bring to Home. Home should now maybe show all delivered for that route.
o	This covers main flows.
By end of Phase 3, we have a working offline app for the core functionality on desktop. Next, we integrate backup/resume and server sync.
Phase 4: Backup & Resume (Enhancements)
We have mostly implemented this in bits, but let’s finalize:
•	4.1 Backup now button logic: If not done earlier, ensure the “Backup now” on Home (and on Run finish) uses the common backup service code.
•	Possibly move backup code into a service (BackupService).
•	E.g., BackupService.exportToCSV(all: boolean, routeDate?: string). If all is true, get all deliveries; if false and routeDate provided, filter by that.
•	Actually perhaps simpler: always all data. If she specifically wants only one day, she could filter in Excel. So just do all.
•	Already done mostly.
•	4.2 Show last backup time properly:
•	We will update UI after backup success:
o	Perhaps in BackupService, after share is successful (or at least attempted), we do something like:
 	const nowStr = new Date().toLocaleTimeString(); // or toLocaleString for date+time
localStorage.setItem('lastBackup', nowStr);
return nowStr;
o	The HomeComponent can then set this.lastBackupTime = backupService.lastBackupTime from localStorage on init.
o	And update it after calling backup.
•	Display it as, e.g., “Last backup: 3:42 PM on Nov 24” or just time if same day.
•	Keep it subtle (small font).
•	4.3 Resume from last state:
•	Implementation described above (store current route in localStorage).
•	Possibly store currentIndex as well, but as reasoned, not needed if we can compute from statuses.
•	But computing requires reading all deliveries on launch which might be okay (small data).
•	Alternatively, store just the last known current index to jump directly without scanning. But scanning is trivial if 30 stops.
•	We’ll do scanning to keep it robust (in case of any mismatches).
•	Put this logic in app.component. But Angular app might fully reload on PWA launch anyway, so app.component is fine.
•	Make sure to import storageService and perhaps do the resume logic after DB initialized (Dexie opens quickly, but might want to await something).
•	Possibly mark currentRoute in storage at start of run (in RunComponent ngOnInit, do localStorage.setItem).
•	Remove at finish.
•	4.4 Crash resilience and testing:
•	Simulate by marking a few delivered, then closing the browser tab, reopening. See if resume works.
•	Or in PWA scenario, kill the app and reopen.
•	Also test if mid-route you press Backup Now, it should capture the delivered statuses so far too (if she, say, wants a mid-route backup).
•	(We should allow backup at any time, not just end; might keep backup button on route screens too if desired. But one on Home is likely enough except after finishing a route we put one for convenience.)
Everything now should ensure "never lose progress". Even a crash, data is in IndexedDB. If IDB got wiped (rare, and if persistent hopefully never), we have at least whatever manual backups were done.
Phase 5: Optional Server Sync
Now for adding server capabilities. If we decide to implement it:
•	5.1 Set up a minimal backend environment: (This might be done outside Angular, but I'll outline steps for completeness.)
•	Could use Node + Express, or a serverless function.
•	Since you said possibly host on your own domain, maybe a small Node app:
o	Define route app.post('/api/sync', (req,res) => { ... } );.
o	Check header req.headers.authorization for Bearer <token>. Compare to a token stored in config.
o	If missing or wrong, respond res.sendStatus(401).
o	If okay, parse req.body.deliveries.
o	Ensure that body parser is set up (Express.json middleware).
o	For each delivery in array:
	Use an upsert logic in DB or in-memory store. Perhaps use an ID->record map.
	If using a file, e.g., for each delivery’s routeDate, merge into a JSON file.
o	Save changes (DB commit or write file).
o	Return success (maybe include how many saved or something).
o	Also maybe implement app.get('/api/routes/:date') to retrieve data if needed.
o	Keep the backend very small. (We won't dive too deep since it's straightforward with any DB).
•	If using a relational DB like SQLite:
o	Use an ORM or raw SQL. For example, run an UPSERT for each (if SQLite 3.24+ supports UPSERT).
o	Or SELECT by id; if exists UPDATE else INSERT.
•	Make sure to handle proper data types (dates as text, numeric dozens).
•	Also log the sync (maybe console.log which deliveries came, for monitoring).
•	Rate limiting: could use express-rate-limit package, set something like max 100 requests per hour (which is far above what we’ll do).
•	The data volume is tiny so performance fine.
•	5.2 Client: integrate sync calls:
•	Write a SyncService (or integrate in StorageService) to handle syncing:
o	Possibly store unsynced items in IndexedDB (we already mark synced=false).
o	The logic: whenever online and unsynced exist, send them.
o	Implementation approach:
o	Option A: Fire a sync attempt after every delivery action if online.
o	Option B: Use the online event to batch sync all pending.
o	We can combine: we’ll maintain an array pendingSyncIds for quick access.
o	Actually since we have Dexie, we can query where('synced').equals(false) to get unsynced.
o	So the OnlineOfflineService could emit changes. On going online:
	const pending = await db.deliveries.where({ synced: 0 }).toArray(); if (pending.length) syncService.sync(pending);
o	Or we could just call sync after each markDelivered/Skipped:
	In StorageService.markDelivered, after writing to DB, call syncService.scheduleSync(delivery).
	That scheduleSync can push the item to a local array.
	If navigator.onLine, it immediately tries to POST (maybe wait a few seconds in case multiple come in quick succession).
	If offline, scheduleSync just stores it, and an online event will trigger actual send of all.
o	Possibly easier: use event listener:
 	window.addEventListener('online', () => syncService.syncAllUnsynced());
 	And also in markDelivered/Skipped, if online, call syncSingle right away.
o	Implement syncAllUnsynced():
 	const unsynced = await db.deliveries.where('synced').equals(false).toArray();
if (!unsynced.length) return;
try {
  await http.post('/api/sync', { deliveries: unsynced }, { headers: { Authorization: `Bearer ${TOKEN}` } }).toPromise();
  // If success:
  const ids = unsynced.map(d=>d.id);
  await db.deliveries.where('id').anyOf(ids).modify({ synced: true });
} catch (e) {
  console.error("Sync failed", e);
  // Optionally retry logic or set a timer for next attempt
}
 	We should ensure to send minimal necessary data in each delivery object. Possibly the entire record is fine (the server can ignore fields it doesn’t use).
o	We might also send only the changes rather than full objects. But since we have final state, sending full objects is okay.
o	If concerned about duplicates: maybe include updatedAt as well to let server skip older updates (but if using upsert by id, it’s fine).
o	Set a small delay between tries if needed.
o	syncSingle(delivery) can be similar but for one item. Or simply call syncAll each time because number is small.
•	Provide the static token:
o	We can store it in environment file: e.g., environment.syncToken = 'YOURTOKEN';
o	Then use it in header.
o	Keep in mind, this token will be visible in JS bundle, but we accept that tradeoff[24].
•	Show UI indicator:
o	It might be nice to show if data is synced or not (like a cloud icon or an "Uploading..." text). But not necessary if it’s quick and reliable. We can include a subtle indicator if user is online vs offline.
o	Perhaps on Home, a label "Offline mode" if offline, and "All changes synced" or "X unsynced changes" if applicable.
o	We could maintain a pendingCount observable and display if >0.
o	This is an enhancement; main thing is it works invisibly.
•	5.3 Test sync:
•	Use a local test: run the server, configure the API URL accordingly (for local maybe use http://localhost:3000/api/sync).
•	In the Angular app environment, set base API URL.
•	Mark some deliveries offline, then bring online and see if server receives them.
•	Also test double sending scenario (stop the server, mark delivered, then start server, app should send when detects online).
•	Check that the server stored them (look at DB or file).
•	Try a normal online run: as soon as each is delivered, the app calls POST. Possibly in that case multiple quick calls. The server should handle that. Or our code might batch them if we didn't call immediate. We might decide to not call on every single deliver if expecting poor network, maybe better to queue and send a batch every few minutes. But with such low frequency, immediate is fine.
•	5.4 Security verify:
•	Confirm that calls include the token and server rejects if not.
•	The token should be long random (like 'bd83a902-...something').
•	Document to keep it secret, etc.
Phase 6: Polishing & Testing on iPhone
Finally, deploy and test in the real scenario:
•	6.1 Deployment to hosting:
•	If you have a domain, set up hosting for the Angular app (could be as simple as serving static files via Nginx/Apache or using a service like Netlify).
•	Build the Angular app for production: ng build --prod (this outputs files in dist/).
•	Upload dist contents to your domain’s folder.
•	Ensure that ngsw.json and manifest.webmanifest are served correctly and that service worker is registered.
•	For the optional API, deploy that as well:
o	If same domain and server, configure the web server to forward /api/* to the backend script.
o	Or if separate subdomain, ensure CORS is configured (allow origin of PWA).
o	Because adding that complexity might be tricky, perhaps easiest to put the API under the same domain with an Express server that also serves static files. Alternatively, host the API separately and update environment.apiUrl accordingly.
•	6.2 Testing on iPhone (PWA):
•	On the iPhone (with Safari), navigate to the app URL.
•	You should see the app, test basic operations while still in Safari. Then use the share -> "Add to Home Screen".
•	Launch from home screen, now it’s a standalone PWA. Test the following:
o	Import CSV via iCloud Drive selection: does the file picker appear and can you select a file? (Might need to have a CSV in iCloud or local files ready.)
o	After import, does the route list show correctly? Are fonts sizes comfortable? Possibly adjust CSS if text appears too small/big after seeing actual device.
o	Start route, mark a few delivered. Then without connectivity: Put phone in airplane mode and mark some delivered/skipped. Ensure no errors (the sync will silently fail but queue).
o	Close the PWA completely (swipe up to kill). Reopen it. It should resume the route exactly where left off. Check that data persisted (none lost).
o	Turn internet back on. The app (if opened) should attempt to sync queued changes. If backend is up, verify it did by checking server logs or data.
o	Use the “Backup now” on the device: it should bring up the iOS share sheet. Choose “Save to Files” and pick a location (e.g., iCloud Drive or On My iPhone). Then go to Files app to confirm the CSV is saved. Also check that its content has the statuses and is correctly formatted for Excel.
o	Perhaps try opening that CSV in Excel or Numbers on the phone to ensure it’s all correct (or send to a computer).
o	Test the “Navigate” button: it should jump to Maps with the address. Confirm it opens Apple Maps and not just Safari (should open Maps app hopefully).
o	If you have Google Maps and want that, maybe implement a toggle or long-press? But probably Apple Maps by default is fine.
o	Try some edge cases:
o	If import a CSV with multiple days, does selecting different date work? (We should ensure selecting a different route resets any previously selected state.)
o	If multiple routes present, and you run one to completion, then on home maybe run another. Ensure the app handles switching. Possibly the localStorage currentRoute might still have old one; we should update it when new route is started.
o	If there's only one route, maybe auto-select it to reduce a tap? We might consider auto-select if only one route in list.
o	If CSV is malformed (maybe test with missing header or a column), does our error handling do something sensible? Possibly out of scope, but at least not crash. We might simply fail to parse and maybe alert "Import failed. Please check CSV format.".
o	Check performance: the app should be snappy given the small data. On iPhone, ensure there’s no noticeable lag when tapping deliver/skip (shouldn’t be).
o	Check how it behaves if the PWA is inactive for some time:
o	iOS might unload service worker after ~30s of background. But our app data is in IndexedDB, which persists. So that’s fine.
o	If reopened after an hour, still should resume.
o	If the PWA wasn’t launched for a week: with persist, hopefully data is still there. Hard to test quickly, but trust the persistent storage API and the usage frequency.
•	6.3 UI fine-tuning:
•	Adjust any spacing or colors after seeing on device. Sometimes what looks good on desktop needs tweaks on mobile.
•	For example, maybe increase tap target padding if finger coverage feels tight. Ensure no element is too close to edges (iOS has safe area insets for notch etc., but since mostly portrait and not full-bleed content, we’re okay).
•	Check text wrapping: long names or addresses might wrap. Our design should handle that (we allowed multiple lines for address, etc.). Ensure it doesn’t break layout.
•	If any text is cut off or overlapping, fix CSS (like add flex-wrap or use ellipsis with overflow:hidden if needed).
•	Confirm contrast in sunlight if possible (maybe just ensure high contrast – using black on white is best anyway).
•	Icon and splash:
o	When adding to home screen, check that the icon is correct (not the default Angular one). If not, ensure apple-touch-icon meta is correct.
o	The PWA splash screen (the loading screen when launching the app) on iOS can be set via special link meta tags for different screen sizes. By default, iOS might use the icon or a screenshot. If it’s using a screenshot, sometimes it shows a blank white or default text which is not ideal. If we have time, configure splash screens:
o	Apple requires <link rel="apple-touch-startup-image" ...> for different device resolutions. This is a bit tedious. Might skip if not crucial, but a nice polish is to have a simple splash with our icon centered.
o	Possibly find a tool that generates those from icon.
o	Not critical, but mention that in user instructions if desired.
•	6.4 Edge Cases to test:
List a checklist for final QA: - Offline from start: try loading the PWA with no internet (once it’s installed). It should still work because assets are cached. If it doesn’t, might be because service worker didn’t cache something (like perhaps the CSV import might not work offline obviously because it needs a file from device storage – which is fine, that doesn’t require internet anyway). - Import edge cases: * CSV with no header (maybe our parser expects header=true, so if none, first row may be treated as header). * CSV with additional columns or different ordering – our Papa parse by header name means we don’t care order, just names. So that’s fine. * Non-numeric in Dozens column – our Number() will produce NaN -> 0, which might be okay or we should maybe alert "Invalid number for dozens, setting 0". * Blank lines in CSV – Papa usually handles or we can filter them out. - Data persistence: * Use the app, then turn phone off and on, data should still be there. * Use the app, then not use it for a few days, open again – likely fine (especially if we got persist). - Multi-user (if ever): not a current requirement, but if someone else uses the same app on the same device or you have to clear for a new CSV, we handle by just re-importing. If another user on a different device, they’d have their own local DB and optionally could share a CSV back and forth, but multi-device sync isn't planned beyond backup to server manually. - If unsynced changes remain (e.g., no connectivity and user closes app and doesn't open with net for days): they risk not being on server, but they are on device. That’s acceptable. When net eventually available and app opened, they’ll sync then. We might mention to user: ensure to open the app when you have signal at the end of the day so that the cloud backup can happen. Or just rely on CSV backup anyway.
Finally, once all is tested and refined, we can consider the project complete.
 
This roadmap provides a clear path from nothing to a fully functioning, tested PWA suited for your aunt’s egg delivery tracking. Each phase can be implemented and verified step by step, and the result will be a robust offline-first app that meets the goals: - Data safety through immediate local writes and backups[6], - User-friendly interface with large text and controls[27][26], - Minimal complexity (no login, etc.) but optional safeguards like server sync for peace of mind, - Compatibility with her existing CSV workflow.
Risks and Mitigations
Even with a careful design, it’s important to recognize potential risks and how we address them:
1. Data Loss Risks: - Device Loss or Failure: If the iPhone is lost, damaged, or the app is accidentally uninstalled, data recorded only on the device would vanish. Mitigation: We encourage frequent backups: the “Backup now” function exports CSV that can be stored in iCloud or elsewhere, providing an off-device record. Additionally, the optional server sync keeps a copy on your server whenever the app goes online. Thus, even if the device is gone, the data can be restored from a CSV file or the server backup. We'll instruct your aunt to use "Backup now" at least at the end of each delivery day (if not more often). The server sync further automates this whenever connectivity is available. - Browser Data Eviction: In rare cases, mobile browsers might clear stored data (especially if storage was not persisted or if the user’s phone is extremely low on space). We’ve mitigated this by requesting persistent storage[13][14], and by the fact that the app will be used regularly (which itself prevents the iOS 7-day purge rule). Also, the localStorage JSON backup acts as a second copy on the device. The likelihood of both IndexedDB and localStorage getting wiped without user action is very low. And of course, external backups (CSV/cloud) are the ultimate safety net if something catastrophic happens. - App/Phone Crash mid-use: If the app or phone crashes while delivering, any deliveries marked up to that point are already in IndexedDB (each button press saved immediately). On restarting, the app resumes and no data is lost. We tested scenarios of sudden closes to ensure data is retained and the user is brought back to the correct state.
2. Data Consistency and Integrity: - Partial updates: For example, if the user taps “Deliver” and right at that moment the app or phone crashes, there is a slight risk the transaction didn’t complete. However, IndexedDB transactions are atomic – either the write happened or not[7]. On resume, if that delivery still shows as pending, the user can mark it delivered again. This is no worse than if the button tap hadn’t registered. There’s a tiny chance of a duplicate record in server log if the app synced it before crash and then syncs again on resume. But because we use unique IDs, the server will just update the existing entry, avoiding true duplication. - User input errors: The most likely data inconsistency comes from user mistakes (marking the wrong person as skipped, etc.). We mitigate some of this with UI design: confirming skip reasons (so a skip requires an extra step, reducing accidental skips). We also made buttons large to avoid mis-taps[27]. We do not currently have an "undo" feature, so if she accidentally marks delivered the wrong entry, correcting it means possibly editing the CSV after exporting or marking in notes. In a future iteration, we could allow selecting a delivered item in the planner list and toggling it back to pending, but for v1 it’s omitted to keep UI simple. We will train the user to be careful and perhaps use the skip function if uncertain (since skip requires confirmation and can indicate a need to revisit). - Merge conflicts: Since there’s effectively only one device in use at a time, we don’t have the classic multi-user conflict issue. If in the future two different devices were used (say an iPad and an iPhone both running the app for the same route), they’d each have their own local DB which could diverge. Our backup server would get inputs from both, potentially duplicating or conflicting. This is outside the scope of v1 (we assume a single device). If multi-device use becomes needed, we’d have to implement a proper sync with conflict resolution (perhaps using something like CouchDB or Dexie’s sync protocol). For now, we mitigate by simply restricting use to one primary device.
3. Security Risks: - API Key Exposure: The static bearer token in the app could be discovered by tech-savvy individuals (by inspecting the app code). If someone malicious got this token, they could theoretically spam the backup API or retrieve data. We mitigate this by: - Keeping the app distribution limited (not published widely). - The data itself not being highly sensitive (addresses and delivery counts are relatively low-risk if leaked). - Monitoring the server: any unusual activity (like a large number of requests) would be noticed and we could rotate the token. We chose this simple auth as a trade-off: implementing full user authentication would be overkill for a trusted small user group. - In the short term, this risk is acceptable; long term, if the user base grew or data sensitivity increased, we would move to a more secure auth (e.g., requiring login or using device-bound tokens). - Intercepting Data in Transit: Without HTTPS, an attacker could sniff the network and read the data or steal the token. Mitigation: We require HTTPS for the PWA and the API. All traffic is encrypted, so sniffing is not feasible. We will also enforce HSTS on the server so that browsers always use HTTPS. As an extra, the token is sent in an Authorization header, which is standard. - Unauthorized API Access: We ensure the server only accepts requests with the correct token. There is no endpoint to fetch all data without auth. The one read endpoint we might have (GET /api/routes/date) also requires the token. This prevents the data from being pulled by anyone without the app. We also limited what the API does: it doesn’t delete or modify arbitrarily, it mostly just inserts/upserts. So even if an attacker tried to mess with data, the worst they could do is send fake deliveries. The impact of that is minimal (and could be cleaned by referring to the authoritative CSV). - Server Attacks: Since the API is not public, risk of targeted attack is low. But if someone did find the URL, they might attempt DoS or use the token to flood data. Our mitigations: - The server could implement basic rate limiting or even require the requests to come from specific IP ranges. However, IP restriction isn’t reliable for a mobile user (their IP changes), and with HTTPS + token we have enough. - We keep the server code simple and free of vulnerabilities (just doing straightforward DB writes). We’ll still sanitize inputs (the fields are expected to be certain types, we’ll enforce type checking to avoid injection – using parameterized queries or an ORM helps here). - Regular backups of the server database in case someone did something like wiping data (not likely since no delete endpoint and no one else has token).
4. Operational Risks: - User Adoption and Training: There’s a risk your aunt might find the PWA unfamiliar or forget to do certain steps (like importing the latest CSV or hitting backup). We mitigate this by making the UI as intuitive as possible (big obvious buttons, minimal options). Also, as part of rollout, you’ll likely walk her through how to use it. We might include some on-screen tips initially (like a one-time “Import your spreadsheet to begin” message). - Excel workflow integration: If the CSV import/export doesn’t perfectly align with her Excel columns, there’s a risk of confusion or extra work. We address this by sticking to the same columns and order she’s used to. We’ll test the exported CSV in Excel to confirm it opens cleanly (no weird delimiters or encoding issues – we’ll use UTF-8 and standard commas, which Excel can open). If she has any Excel macros or processing, we ensure our format fits in. As long as we include all needed fields, she can continue her reports with minimal changes. - Performance on older devices: If her iPhone is quite old, there’s a risk the Angular app might be sluggish or memory heavy (though Angular is generally fine on reasonably recent iPhones). We mitigated by focusing on a small data set and not bloating with heavy libraries. We should test on the target device; if it’s slow to load initially, we might consider some optimizations (like turning off unnecessary polyfills, etc.). But given only a few components and small DB, it should be okay. The largest overhead is the Angular framework itself, but modern build optimization and Ahead-of-Time compilation minimize that. Once loaded, usage is light. - Compatibility: We target iOS Safari which is generally fine with PWA features now. But some quirks to watch: - The Web Share API for files was only from iOS 15 onward. If her iPhone is on iOS 14, the backup share might not work (Safari would throw an error). Mitigation: we have the fallback to use an anchor download. On iOS 14 PWA, clicking that might open the CSV as text in a new Safari window (since download attribute may not be honored by standalone). That’s not ideal, but then she could tap “Open in…” and save to Files. It’s a bit awkward but still gets the job done. We’ll note that if the direct share fails, she can still retrieve the CSV via the Files app (or we implement an alternative like emailing it). - Service workers on iOS have some limitations (e.g., no periodic sync, no push without specific setup). We aren’t using those features now. The main PWA stuff we use (cache, home screen, offline storage) are supported. If Apple changes anything or requires re-engagement (some older versions required visiting the site in Safari once every period to keep storage alive – hopefully persistent storage request avoids that). - Storage Quota: Although we said space is not an issue (and it truly isn’t for dozens of text records), if the user’s device is extremely low on storage, any new data (even small) could fail. iOS might then ignore persist. It’s rare, but if her phone is full, the app might not save. The only mitigation is telling the user to keep some free space for the app. Realistically, a few KB is negligible, but it’s a general low-space risk that any app would face. We assume this is not a problem. - Updates to the App: We need to consider how the app will be updated to new versions. Angular service worker will handle new version caching, but iOS PWAs only check for an update when the app is opened (and even then might use a cached version unless you explicitly tell the service worker to check). We have a strategy in Angular’s SW where it can check and notify of updates. We might implement something simple: e.g., in app.component, use SwUpdate to check for updates periodically and if found, automatically activate it or prompt the user to refresh. If not implemented, the user might continue using an old version until they close and reopen the PWA a couple times (iOS tends to update on second launch after a new version is available). - This is not a huge risk, but something to plan. For now, if you update the app logic or fix a bug, you’ll have to instruct to refresh the PWA (maybe remove and re-add to home screen if needed). We can mitigate confusion by version-numbering the app (show version on home screen discreetly) so you can ask what version she’s on if debugging. - Scope Creep: There’s a risk of wanting to add extra features (route optimization, multiple drivers, etc.) which could complicate the system. We consciously keep v1 minimal. Future features can be layered in once this stable base is working. By listing future ideas (like multi-device sync or optimization) but not doing them now, we mitigate the risk of never delivering something useful promptly.
In summary, we’ve identified the main risks (data, security, usability) and addressed them with a combination of design choices and best practices: - Frequent, user-friendly backups (both manual[26] and automatic cloud) cover worst-case scenarios. - Offline durability techniques (IndexedDB transactions, persistent storage) ensure the app can be trusted day-to-day[6]. - Security is kept simple but sufficient for the context, and we acknowledge its limits (with plans to improve if needed). - Thorough testing and incremental development (as in the roadmap) catch issues early, reducing the risk of a showstopper bug in the field.
The result is a PWA that should be dependable for your aunt – even in rural offline conditions – and give both her and you confidence that the egg delivery records won’t be lost or messed up.
 
[1] [17] [29] [30] [32] Getting started • Angular
https://angular.dev/ecosystem/service-workers/getting-started
[2] Dexie.js - Offline-First Database with Cloud Sync, Collaboration & Real-Time Updates
https://dexie.org/
[3] [18] [19] Online and Offline Sync With Angular and IndexedDb - Offering Solutions Software - Fabian Gosebrink - Angular, .NET, Java & Agile
https://offering.solutions/blog/articles/2018/11/21/online-and-offline-sync-with-angular-and-indexeddb/
[4] [33] Get started with Dexie in Angular | Dexie.js Documentation - Offline-First Database | Dexie.js - Offline-First Database for JavaScript
https://dexie.org/docs/Tutorial/Angular
[5] [6] [7] [8] Offline data  |  web.dev
https://web.dev/learn/pwa/offline-data
[9] [10] [13] [14] [20] [21] javascript - Does navigator.storage.persist() only protect against data removal in the case of storage pressure? - Stack Overflow
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/78474823/does-navigator-storage-persist-only-protect-against-data-removal-in-the-case-o
[11] [12] What PWA Can Do Today
https://whatpwacando.today/storage/
[15] The limitations of PWAs (and why you shouldn't worry about them!)
https://www.luxidgroup.com/blog/the-limitations-of-pwas
[16] PWA iOS Strategies for Unbeatable Mobile Performance! - scandiweb
https://scandiweb.com/blog/pwa-ios-strategies/
[22] [23] [24] [25] protocols - Best practices for relatively simple API for our clients - Information Security Stack Exchange
https://security.stackexchange.com/questions/121146/best-practices-for-relatively-simple-api-for-our-clients
[26] How Do I Make My Healthcare App Accessible For Elderly Users?
https://thisisglance.com/learning-centre/how-do-i-make-my-healthcare-app-accessible-for-elderly-users
[27] [28] 9 Mobile App UI Design Best Practices for 2025
https://nextnative.dev/blog/mobile-app-ui-design-best-practices
[31] Does not provide a valid apple-touch-icon | Lighthouse
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/lighthouse/pwa/apple-touch-icon
[34] Documentation - Papa Parse
https://www.papaparse.com/docs
[35] Sharing Files from iOS 15 Safari to Apps using Web Share
https://blog.bitsrc.io/sharing-files-from-ios-15-safari-to-apps-using-web-share-c0e98f6a4971
[36] navigator.share file not working on iOS 14 Safari - Stack Overflow
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/66661995/navigator-share-file-not-working-on-ios-14-safari
